 

                        I die for the Revolution. No Chinese Woman has yet shed blood for the Revolution. I shall be the first, although the world doesn't know much about the Revolution. I leave behind my husband and children. My death is my contribution to the Revolution. It will build an indestructible home for all people, a peaceful and calm world for all children. The long-enslaved masses are numb, they know not peace, nor calm. These two children will soon lose their mother. I die for all children. I die for the Revolution. I'm not afraid, nor do I care about death. I rejoice at my martyrdom: At this moment I cry with blissful tears. Put the donation boxes in prominent spots. Go over to the door. Be vigilant. Yes. Let Mr. Sun rest. Don't disturb him. Yes. Juemin. Who's that? Who? Look. What? Go, quick. Get up, there's a woman here. Don't bother, just go. Keqiang. Time to get up. Get up. Let me sleep three more minutes. Alright. Get up. Two minutes. Fine. Two minutes. One minutes. I'll get up. I should go to Guangzhou for the uprising. What? You forgot the committee's decision last night? Keqiang, listen. I won't. I must throw myself into battle. Then last night's meeting was a waste. Why can't we talk it through again? There's nothing to discuss. Huang Xing leads the Guangzhou uprising. Sun Wen handles fundraising overseas. We voted. Promise. Promise. These are donations from abroad. Overseas Chinese helped us. I promised them. I cannot fail them, I must carry out my pledge. It's not a personal promise but Tongmenghui's promise. They wrote these letters. Who's this Woman? Zonghan. Xu Zonghan. Tongmenghui member from my village. I'm Huang Xing. Zonghan coordinates underground organizations in Guangzhou. You two pretend to be husband and wife. It's a good cover. No, it's not appropriate. Why not? I'm a woman and I don't care. What are you afraid of? It's easy to die in battle, but hard to motivate the living. You have the difficult task. The Guangzhou uprising will finish off the Qing Dynasty. Take this pocket watch. On the day of the uprising, we'll monitor time together. Go, Charge. Quick. Quick. Destroy this wall. Yes. You rebel. You dare revolt. You revolutionary. You dare revolt. You... You... Where's Zhang Mingqi? I don't know. Quick. And my Wife. Quick. Comrades taking part in the uprising know me better. It's easier for me to coordinate... Nonsense. I can wield my pen and scalpel, why not a gun? Remember: You're still a wanted man by the Qing court, you can't risk it. If you return to China to lead the uprising, you're being irresponsible. Yu Peilun. Yu Peilun. Yu Peilun. Here. We couldn't Contact the other groups. Zhang Mingqi ran away. Keqiang said, if the uprising fails, you must inform Sun Wen immediately. What else did he say? He said, if he's not back by dusk, you must leave Guangzhou at once. Quick. Back off. All of you. Listen to my command. Attack from the sides. - Yes. - Hand grenades. - Yes. - Follow me. Charge. Keqiang. Your hand. Keqiang. Don't mind me, charge. Yes. Charge. Get away. Run. - What are you doing? - Run. Let me go. Let me go. Yu Peilun. Gentlemen, our fundraiser today was originally organized for the Guangzhou uprising. But just now, I received news. Fighting in Guangzhou has ceased. The uprising has failed. The telegram states, the uprising failed, many of our core members are dead. You've never met them. These young people who died were talented, some came from rich families, some have just gotten married. They were willing to sacrifice themselves, whatever the cost. They sacrificed their lives for the cause because they have faith. What do your lies have to do with us? Good question. Most of you gathered here are overseas Chinese. You know Well our faces mark us as Chinese, and we've suffered discrimination and bullying. We've endured unfair treatment. All because the country of our people has long been corrupt and weak, writhing in pain. Our Chinese compatriots face adversity, our land taken by others. Our Revolution ensures people can pursue happiness, that our race will regain dignity. The Chinese revolutionary movement is blessed by support from overseas Chinese. For many years, I strongly believe this. Overseas Chinese are the mother of the Revolution. Gentlemen, your children have died for you. Fang Shengdong. Lin Shishuang. Yu Peilun. Chen Gengxin. Lin Juemin. This young man will soon be a father. What's this? US$300,000.00 Donation from Zhigongtang I won't hide this from you. We sold our ancestral house. Yat-sen, we're overseas Chinese, our roots are in China. The Qing Dynasty is no longer our home. Without a place called home, why Keep an ancestral house? Take it. If the Revolution fails, you'll owe us for generations. Another one. Yat-sen, your pocket Watch can block bullets, but not cannon shells. Fire. Empress Dowager, I hear. Sun Wen has long escaped abroad, he hasn't returned for more than a decade. We might want to arrest him, but it's going to be hard. Didn't we alert our envoys and foreign governments about Sun, telling them they should monitor his movements? But Sun gives public lectures everywhere, raising funds, organizing rebels, trafficking arms, plotting uprisings. Minister Xu, perhaps you overstate. He hasn't appeared before our eyes. He's only mortal, not the Monkey King. What power can he wield? Sun's done enough to rock the boat. These years, unrest seethes everywhere, rebellions follow one after another. Sun's been misleading others with his lies, so many follow his path. What a troublemaker. As if he doesn't make enough trouble. The Qing Dynasty will not fall because of him. If he dares enter the Forbidden City, our Manchurian imperial army will kill him. Yes, let's just eradicate. Sun Wen and his cohorts. We'll destroy them once and for all. Stop carrying on like this. No matter whether to kill them, or praise or punish them, or whatever other solution, I only have this to say: Please, all of you, let Us have some peace. Recently, the mortgage of our railways against the Four Nations Bank loan has led to riots. What's the use of your rifles? Tell them: If they revolt, they'll all die in vain. Lin Juemin. You're educated, you come from a good family. Why did you join the rebels? Zhang Mingqi, why do you hide in darkness? What are you afraid of? What am I afraid of? You're afraid of my youth. I have chosen death, but I'm still young. You might live, but you are old and worthless. Have you read the study of evolution? Survival of the fittest. Have you considered the leading nations in the world were all borne of revolution? China must also have a revolution. Affairs of the nation are not your concern. Sun Wen said, China is Weak. There's no way out. The royal family, aristocrats and officials all follow their old ways, but what of the people? They barely survive, ignorant of the world. China is no match for other countries, it's a dire situation. Young man, the Qing court has a hard time too. The court? The court gave Hong Kong to England and Taiwan to Japan. That's the good Work of the Qing court. What's the use of keeping it? I'm interrogating you, yet you turn around to question me? You have no grounds to sentence me. Lin Juemin, I had wanted to exercise clemency. There's no need. My comrades and I fought together, we'll die together. I can't be an exception. When you die, you'll be left with nothing. The Qing court wants my life; I'll destroy the dynasty at its heart. Hello, Your Royal Highness, this is a car used by British royalty. As a member of Chinese royalty, let me try. Please. You've come because of the Sichuan railways? The loan agreements between our countries and the mortgage of your railways cannot be written off. That's the trouble. I knew it. The mortgage of the Sichuan and Guangdong railways against your loan will lead to trouble down the road. If you forcibly take the railways, it'll be a catastrophe. Can't we find a solution, my dear lord? Look at this invention. It's an iron machine. It can move forward and backward, left and right, whatever you wish. My lord, please enjoy this humble gift and steer it in the right direction. Mr. Ambassador, we've already sent troops from Wuchang to suppress the Sichuan riots. Don't you worry. Your Royal Highness, you're a great strategist. You're the one holding the steering wheel. You have money, you have navel fleets, you've always been better businessmen than us. In 50 years, the car you gave me will be scrap metal, but my little gift to you will be priceless. Thank you. Open the door. Huang Keqiang. Quick, open the door. Huang Keqiang I Know you're inside.. Open, Huang Keqiang. Huang Keqiang, open the door. Open the door for me. What are you doing? Put it down. Give me the blade. Let me go. What are you doing? What? You can't die. I know you saw all of them being killed. I know we failed. I didn't want to die, Zonghan I want to keep this hand to wield the gun. Help me, chop it off. No. - No. - So we failed, we've failed before. No. Children, do you know what the telegram says? No. Huang Keqiang is alive. Fate has been kind. Who's he? Huang Keqiang is a strong and determined man, a man who won't die. We don't know him. But do you know Homer Lea? Yes. Take me to him, please. Yes. Where's Homer Lea? There. Homer Lea. Homer. Homer. - Homer. - Hey, I'm here. Mr. Lea, tell me. Why are you so interested in Chinese revolution? Nowadays, a Chinese revolution is the only thing that can make exciting history. Exciting? That's not what our revolution is about. Why revolution? I was once a doctor. I used to save a lot of lives with my scalpel. But sadly, in my country, life is so miserable it might be Worse than death. I always wonder why my compatriots have to endure their lives with no dignity. They survive like animals with very basic needs, suffering the oppression from the ruling class and foreign powers. Now, I cannot accept it, I will not accept it. I want to change. I want a revolution. Come, I'll show you. Recently, in Sichuan, the central part of China, people have launched a movement of protecting railway projects against the hopelessly corrupt Qing government. It is said that the Qing government has to mobilize the army from Hubei province o Sichuan. What they don't know is many officers who stayed behind in the army of. Hubei, Hunan, and Jiangsu, are active members of Tongmenghui, the Restoration League, I have a feeling that in the south of Yangtze River, an even bigger movement will take hold. I want to join your revolution. That's fine. I would like to invite you to join the Chinese Revolution as a military advisor, but I'm afraid I cannot afford you and pay the attention that you deserve. This, this is not about money. It's about you, Sun. You must be China's revolutionary leader. I promise you. Peng Chufan. Liu Fuji. Yang Hongsheng. The three of them plotted mutiny. L'I3Vf1'S punishment is upon them. We execute them today as a Warning to all. Among you... Governor, we found the list. What should we do? What else can we do with those rebels from the Gongjinhui? Starting tonight, kill everyone on the list. No one will be spared. All of you, ask your own conscience. The Qing court supports and protects you, yet you plot to rebel, following such thugs as Sun Wen. Isn't that the behavior of unfilial sons, killing their parents? Stop, you two. What are your names? Xiong Bingkun of the 8th regiment, Jin Zheolong of the 8th regiment, Lie low. This is a crisis. Don't be hot-tempered. Yes. What is this? A mutiny? Not sleeping? What do you want? What? This is a mutiny. Tao Qisheng. Brother, put down your rifle. I'm leading a mutiny. How many more will you kill? You're lucky that I'm aiming at you. Brother, this is not a joke. If we don't do it now, then when? Help. Tell Zhang Zhenwu to bring two of his battalions. Aim all artillery at the Governor's mansion. When Xiong Bingkun lights the torch, fire at the mansion. Yes. Charge. Hand grenades. Go. Jin Zhaolong Jin Zhaolong, Xiong Bingkun. Lead two platoons. Order everyone to bring gas canisters. Rush in to fuel the fire. Light the target. Yes. - Quick. - Quick. Quick. Quick. Ready, aiming at the Governor's mansion. Load. Done. Fire. Load. Fire. Good morning, Mrs. Johnson. Good morning. Here. Oh, yes. Oh, Dr. Sun. Yes? It seems like there's something in today's paper about China. Thank you. Do you need some help, Dr. Sun? Can I give you some water? I'm all right. Yat-sen. Hey, what's going on in here? What are you guys doing? Come on. Yat-sen. The Revolution has succeeded. - Hey, what's the matter with you? - Sorry. On October 10, The Revolutionary army took over Wuchang. Governor Rui Cheng fled overnight. Wuchang revolutionaries telegraphed the entire country, asking them to join in the rebellion. The world's in shock. Yat-sen, you should return to China immediately. I'll reserve a boat ticket for you. You only need to spend 20 days across the Pacific, then you'll reach Shanghai. It happened in Wuchang. It happened in Wuchang. Send a telegram to Keqiang in Hong Kong, so he travels to Wuchang to lead the revolution. Yes. Sun, I'm ready. I'll go to China with you. No. I'm going to Europe first. Huang Xing is much better than me to handle this in China. Why? The unrest in China will be closely linked to the Four Nations Bank loan to the Qing court. The court's out of money now, but if they get the loan, they can thwart the revolution. Reserve tickets for Europe. Zonghan, don't bother making dinner. We're running out of time. Put it down. Why are you so anxious? You don't need it. The battle in Wuchang will be intense. I'm concerned for your safety. What about your own safety? Don't Worry, I won't die. Fate will be kind to me. I should go now. Go. What happened? Only yesterday Rui Cheng reported to us that the rebel leaders were killed. A day passed and... The New Army had it easy. Clearly, the Wuchang regiments were sent to Sichuan to stop the unrest, so the city was unguarded... Tell me something I don't already know. The Qing court has ruled for more than 200 years. We've ridden through many storms. It's only a small flame, we'll extinguish it. Who should we send to extinguish this flame? Empress Dowager, I humbly believe... I recommend Yin Chang, head of the Imperial Army. This is his duty. Xu Shichang. Yes. Just now, what were you saying? Yuan Shikai can fulfill this task. Better to appoint Yin Chang. This is family affair. It's better to send over a Manchu. Yes. Empress Dowager, I would like to submit a request. Say it, Royal Prince. Food and supplies precede an army. There's this old saying... Be precise, - don't just quote the classics. - In my opinion, We should finalize the loan from the Four Nations Bank, we'll have less to worry about later. Haven't we discussed this for months? Why hasn't this been done? The Four Nations Bank felt we've been indecisive about mortgaging our railways. There's been criticism outside. People say that we're giving away our sovereignty. If we're not rulers here, is this even a country? General Li, for the sake of the times, please decide. I've treated you well. Why are you making it so difficult for me? We ask that you lead the Military Government. We're not making it difficult. Drop your gun. Please ask him to drop his gun. Put it down. General Li, you've treated us well. We wish you'd lead the Military Government. You nave great talents among the revolutionary ranks. Why don't you ask Sun Wen to be your leader? Li Yuanhong. The revolutionary party will select our leaders. At present. Sun Wen is still abroad, and Huang Keqiang is on his Way here. That's why we offer you this. Li Yuanhong, do you understand your predicament? I can give up my position in the Qing court, but I don't want to become a revolutionary official. I only want to return home. You have no idea of the real situation: Although Rui Cheng and Zhang Biao have gone into hiding, if the court's troops were to counterattack, they can destroy Wuchang in a second. Come back. Stop. - Come back. - Go. Stop. Go. Lie down. Yin Chang's firing at us from a German battleship. General Li, are you all right? What damned battle is this? I'll die because of you. Remove the ammunition, quick. We'll die together. We'll count you as a revolutionary martyr. Li Yuanhong, General of the Mixed Brigade. I'm Military Governor Li Yuanhong. If you Want to live, return to your stations. Attention. Yes. Target: Battleship "Chuyu" Distance: 2400 feet. Load. Prepare for rapid firing, first round. Rapid firing, first round. Fire. Distance: Load. Fire all three cannons. Fire. Cease fire. Why did we stop? I'm the Military Governor, I make all the decisions. Why did they stop? They ran out of ammunition? Doesn't look like it. Should we fire back to test them? What for? Better keep our lives. Run. Run. Even if we annihilate Yin Chang, so what? He's of no consequence. The real battle is ahead of us. Yes. You want to cut my queue? Fine. Come. Since you revolutionaries have bestowed such honour on me, I'll be presumptuous and break the law. Father. Good news. You scared away my fish. You're coming out of seclusion. You can't hold your horses, can you? General, Huafu is here. Huafu. Let's show the revolutionaries and those in the Forbidden City our great Beiyang Army and our great power. Yes. Attention, artillery. Target ahead, distance at 500. Load. Ready. Fire. Alcohol. Keqiang. Where should We go? Wherever there's heavy gunfire. Make way. Make way. Commander. Avoid gunfire. Avoid gunfire. Hide in the trench with your squad. Hide in the trench. Hide in the trench. Don't run. Go back. Don't run. Retrieve the gun. Remember, alive soldier is useless without his weapon. Tell me, Huafu. Tell me. General, We've taken. Hankou. Your order to Scorch we attack Wuchang right away. Now gives us access to Wu... What's your next step? Morale is high, we attack Wuchang right away. Great. We take Hankou first, then attack Beijing. We'll conquer the world. Sit down, have some food. This is a Heaven-sent opportunity. Sit down. Keding, you're cutting to the quick. Let's wait on. Wuchang. After the rabbit is killed, the hunting dog will be cooked. Enemy positions nave advanced. Once they cover their firing range, the infantry will attack. The key to combat is to avoid gunfire. Yes. Idiot, trying to run away? I'll kill you. Drop your gun. He's Huang Xing, our Commander. Salute. I command you all: From now on, follow my orders. Yes. Always be prepared to enter the frontlines. Yes. We torched Hankou well, it was a great offense. But now, we won't follow up. If the revolutionaries can be easily defeated, the country still belongs to the Qing court. If the Qing court is also weak, the revolutionaries could seize power. Somehow, we must be get a share of it. Here's my condition: I take full power over the army and its supplies. Now. Empress Dowager Longyu and the princes must Know that they either get the loan from the Four Nations Bank, or there'll be no more battle. Regarding the revolutionaries... Should we Contact Li Yuanhong and test the waters? He's not a revolutionary. In the long run, we should find someone we can connect with. Sun Yat-sen and Huang Xing. Reporting to the General. Wang Jingwei is here. Please. Isn't Wang supposed to be in Beijing, in prison? Zaifeng released him. You were locked up for a year. You've suffered. Times have changed, don't mention it any more. I treasure you most among the revolutionaries. I was just telling Keding, we should swear as blood brothers. Zhaoming, tell me. What do the revolutionaries want? We Want to establish a republic. Republic? But Why? Feudalism has kept China back for far too long. As long as there's an Emperor, we cannot rid ourselves of the old system. The Revolution must depose the Emperor and the imperial system. That's all theory. We have to put it in practice. When the Republic is established, who will lead it? A leader of the Republic is elected by all citizens. Zhaoming. The General pondered seriously before inviting you from Beijing. He'd like your help. You're the one who knows the revolutionaries well. Zhaoming ls Sun Wen still abroad? Gentlemen. Gentlemen, you know who I am and Why I'm here. It seems to me that you have decided that you're against the revolution. Am I right? Go. If that's the case, the Qing government will take this loan, buy guns and shoot through the hearts of revolutionaries. Your money will support the corrupt Qing government, in exchange for What? Railway? Our railway. Sir. Sir, please keep your voice down. You're deciding the future of my country here. Being a Chinese, I have the right to know what's going on here. We've already informed your government regarding our decision. You must tell me your decision. Let me remind you that we're in Europe. You really should behave like a gentleman. Do you understand what's happening in China now? Mr. Sun Wen. He won't answer. They are bankers, they only care about their money, not other people's fate. Mr. Hillier, do you know who he is? No. He's the man who will decide the future of China. Who are you? Tang Manrou. Idiot. Your father is the Chinese Imperial Ambassador, and you spoke for Sun Wen? Do you know who he is? Who is he? He's a traitor of the Qing Dynasty. He's a wanted criminal. He's a revolutionary. Don't you know? Tang Manrou. I know who he is, that's why I helped him. Mr. Hillier. Hillier. I must go before this person arrives. We cannot be present in the same place. Why leave, Minister Tang? I beg you, you still haven't done us the honour of accepting our invitation. You really mustn't leave. Please. Don't leave. Ladies and Gentlemen: I'm well aware that I've come here uninvited. However, as the leader of the Chinese revolution, I only ask you, please reconsider the 6 million pounds, your loan to the Qing government. Sun Wen, you're a subject of the Qing Dynasty, yet you show no respect for your country. How can you claim any respect regarding our country? You've lost it all a long time ago. I represent the Whole Chinese people, and speak in the name as leader of the Chinese revolution. Dr. Sun, we will not break such an important business contract. Mr. Thompson, this is not a business contract, it's a political deal. If this contract is signed, what's at stake here is Chinese sovereignty. Mr. Sun, our German banks only care about business, we don't care about domestic politics. My dearest German delegates, every time the Qing government fires a gun at us, your money presses the trigger. The Qing government will buy weapons with your loan, nothing else. Perhaps you've misunderstood. According to my understanding, this loan is intended to help rebuild the railways. Mr. Sun, our minister in Peking, Sir John Newell Jordan, said the same thing about the loan. Dear Sir Buchanan, I believe when Mr. Jordan realizes that the money is used to destroy the Chinese revolution, he will change his mind. Sun Wen. This is my second warning. Do not defame the Qing Dynasty here. Defame? Minister Tang, how you underestimated us. We Want to depose you and the court. Gentlemen, we all know that to give good money to a bad client is a fatal mistake. The Qing government is like a patient diagnosed with cancer. Your loan is like sugar pills, it'll only make him feel better, but the fate is sealed. It seems that you are quite pessimistic about the future in China. No, I'm not. On the contrary, my vision of the new China is very positive. I see huge miles covered with natural resources. I see thousands of banks providing new capital. I see a mountain of railways connecting all the modern communities. Gentlemen, you are bankers, you should know to invest your money wisely. Would you rather invest your money into a dying government or the emerging one? Mr. Sun Yat-sen, I know you are the leader of this revolution, and I respect your revolution. However, we cannot invest money against the interests of our own nation. You may know that I'm a surgeon. As a doctor, my duty is to save my patient's life. One day I found my country is suffering cancer. Mr. Hillier, The situation of China is like this roast lamb, it's unlikely our people would enjoy freedom, equality and fraternity. Yes, that is to say, this is China. And all of you Want a piece. Germany here's your piece, the Shandong peninsula. Good location, isn't it? What's all this? Sir Buchanan, your piece, left rather small on this plate: Only Hong Kong, and you know very well, this is a gate to reach China. Mr. Thompson, let me out out a special piece for you, in memory of all those Chinese lives that were lost carving out your mountain for the transcontinental railway where they sleep, buried, the bones of Chinese labourers. It's a pity, all those countries not here today: Russia, Japan and Portugal. They want Pescadores, Liaodong Peninsula and Macau. Gentlemen, this is the last time you can gather to feast on China. I really hope I made my point clear. Mr. Tang, please wait a moment. Please. Go home. Please. Please stay. Stay. Here it is. Please tell me, what does Revolution mean? Like a doctor who heals patients, a revolution saves an entire people. Mr. Sun, I heard girls in China have to bound their feet from young age. Is it painful? Yes, it's painful but it will be gone very soon. I see. Thank you. Must people lose their lives in revolution? The final goal of revolution isn't death, but to change fate. Young people sacrificed themselves for the revolution, so those living can lead better lives. Extend firing range. Come. It's overheated. It won't fire. Go, piss. Lie down. Lie down. Nurse. Little Hubei, gather hand grenades. Give them to me. - Give them to me. - No. Let go. - Commander. - Let go. Don't pull me back. Don't pull me back. Let go. Go. Little Hubei. Ammunition handler. Charge. General, Huafu is here. General, We've taken Hanyang. Should we continue fighting? There's no need to be in such a rush. We nave to let the Qing court understand, if they don't pay up, we won't move. Your words mean... Can't you read? Read it yourself. Fight slowly, wait and see? - But morale is high. - I must return to Beijing and see what the Empress Dowager says. Let me tell you my bottom line: If the court doesn't give me enough money, I won't fight. I'd thought it'd be easy to defeat them, but Sun's rebels are resilient. I also lack ammunition and supplies. Empress Dowager, I was forced to cease the battle of Wuchang. Yuan Shikai. Yes, Empress Dowager. How much do you need? Tell me. If I have12 million taels of gold, I can finish off the revolutionaries within a few months. If we have no money for battle, we only have one choice: To make peace with the revolutionaries. You dare? Making peace means we acknowledge them. The Beiyang Army is on its last round of ammunition. I'll never agree to your making peace. If you really care about the Qing court, do something useful, donate your riches. Why don't you donate your own money to the cause? Yuan Shikai. Empress Dowager, as I had reported earlier, we must have enough money to support the army. Yuan Shikai is indeed hard pressed. You love to argue all the time, pretending to be loyal ministers. Now in times of crisis, you've all become selfish. The dynasty is destined to fall. Your servant will give up all of his possessions. This is a time of crisis, I will lead my entire family to protect the country. Your servant doesn't want a coffin, nor does he care about his ancestral grave. If money can help destroy the rebels, then I'll leave everything and return to my home village. The Four Nations Bank has been persuaded by Sun, I'm afraid we won't receive a cent of this loan. I know. Heaven will punish. Sun Wen for this. Empress Dowager, even though we run out of money, food, and ammunition, we still have for centuries our loyal subjects. I only have this to say: I will die for the Qing Dynasty. Sun Wen, your interference... with the Four Nations Bank loan has generated controversy in China. This is the Prince Regents order to assassinate you. This one looks more like a portrait of the deceased. I don't agree with you, but I respect your courage. I won't Kill you. I want to persuade you. Sun Wen, we are both past middle age. Confucius said, At 50, I knew my destiny. He also said, At 40, I am not deluded. I've never wavered from my beliefs. I know Why you won't Kill me. You're a father, you know the Qing court you serve will eventually destroy your children. We all want a strong and bright China for our children. Go, I don't want to see you again. Mr. Jordan, you're the first guest in my new house. Now that you've moved to Beijing, we can see each other more often. Yes. I don't intend to leave the city this time. How's the situation in the South? Difficult. Sun Wen and Huang Xing are southern barbarians with big appetites. You could have conquered Wuchang, but you stopped. We all knew the Qing Dynasty has run out of money, the end is near. You want to profit from the power balance between the Qing court and the revolutionary army. So now you want peace. What do you think of this balance between my left and right hands? Truth be told, I'm very impressed. But the revolutionaries won't talk to me. Now I understand. Would you like us to extend a hand? You... We'll pave the way for you to negotiate peace with the revolutionaries. It's not good for anyone if fighting continues. What's most important now is holding onto power. Real power. I'm looking for a collaborator to protect the interests of Britain in China. Well, you've found him. Military Governor, let me explain. I sent Keqiang to Shanghai because of the overall strategy of the revolutionary movement. I don't understand. The Wuchang uprising attracted the world's attention. Isn't that also part of the overall strategy? Since we can attack Nanjing, why can't we defend Wuchang'? In Wuchang, we're in a stalemate with the Beiyang Army. Our trainee soliders have suffered heavy casualties. In Nanjing, the enemy is weak. Our plan is to attack Nanjing, than retake Wuchang. 'That's our overall strategy. This is the decision made by the Tongmenghui. I must abide by it. Fine. Whatever you say. But I won't go to Shanghai. Please understand, it hasn't been easy to forge our paths together. My home is here. My power base is here. Military Governor Li, it appears we won't be sharing the same path. My child, don't move. Don't move. Lie down. Listen, if you want to live, we must amputate your leg. Can you hear me? Alcohol. It's fine. Ready? - Be brave. - We begin now. Listen to me. Listen to me. Stop. Stop. Come. Take him away. You've said it before. So we failed. Haven't we failed before? I'm talking to you. Idiot. Mr. Sun, telegram from England for you. Okay, here you are. Thank you. Mr. Sun, I must inform you right away. The Four Nations Bank decided to hold off on the loan to the Qing government. You once told me that. Revolution is life, not only living, but fate. I don't understand Revolution, but I've struggled and fought, I was angry. I also knew, I'd end up as sacrifice along with my father. I wish your Revolution, I'1O, wish our Revolution, every SUCCESS. Yat-sen. Yat-sen. Keqiang. Where are you? Keqiang I'm here. Can you hear me? I can. Where are you? Huang Keqiang. Yat-sen. I'm starboard. Me too. Keqiang. At the Welcome ceremony, you have to put on the revolutionary army uniform. Yes. Yat-sen. Binglin, you're all here. Not in first class? - No. - Second class? No. Yat-sen. It saved my life once. Keqiang, your hand. Guangzhou uprising. Doesn't matter. Yat-sen. Mr. Sun. Dunchu. You're here. Yat-sen, we searched all the way to the beam. You're all here. A hug. Let's go. Yat-sen, we waited so long for your return. Shiping, you haven't aged a bit. Mr. Sun, after your ship departed from Europe, on your journey back, what thoughts came over you? After 16 years of tribulations, I've returned to my motherland. Mr. Sun, we hear you've returned with huge donations, ls that true? I don't have any money. All I bring is the Revolutionary spirit. What is the ultimate goal of the Revolution? The goals of the Revolution are simple: We overthrow imperial rule and save our people. Mr. Sun, what did you tell those bankers in Europe? I told them, it's the Chinese people who'll steer the fate of China, not foreigners or Manchu royalty. Mr. Sun, the north and south are now negotiating peace. What is your opinion? My opinion is this: We haven't reached our Revolutionary goal, we won't negotiate. Tie up them. Our position is that unless the Emperor abdicates, there'll be no peace agreement. Our position is that the monarchical system cannot change. This is a family dinner. Shaochuan, you're part of the family. Come, try this. A specialty from home. Lotus root with glutinous rice. Come, sit. General, this is. To thank you. You put in so much effort in the negotiations. You've worked so hard. Please tell me what's on your mind. You're the only one among Us who knew Sun Wen. I want to know more about. Sun Wen. What type of a man is he? Zhang Shizhao said, China will rise because of Sun, he's the person who'll revive the country. Miyazaki considers Sun a hero who will save China. Kang Youwei claimed Sun is illiterate. Wu Zhihui says that Sun is a hardworking scholar. Some say he's like Robin Hood, an outlaw. Some say he's a real scholar, an itinerant doctor holding a scalpel. Others call him a good-for-nothing liar. There are many versions. Shaochuan, he has so many followers. How does he do it? I did hear this from many people: That Sun is selfless. A selfless person? Where in the world can We find one? It's been 2000 years, we can't wait any longer for. - China's first Republic. - Representatives from the 17 provinces have decided not to elect a President, but to elect a Grand Marshal. Mr. Sun, please sign. A Grand Marshal cannot be head of state. We must elect a President. On the Presidential election, should we wait to hear from Yuan Shikai? If he can really hasten the Emperor's abdication... The negotiating parties already made a pact. Whoever first deposes the Qing government will become President. Yuan Shikai hasn't deposed the Qing court. We didn't break our promise. It you insist on a Presidential election, people will use that as an excuse to resume fighting. So what? We fought and look what we've achieved today. Keqiang. If we resume fighting, what are our chances of winning? We have no money, morale is low, we have no sure chance of winning. How can we fight? This is impractical. When the revolutionary army had nothing, we were willing to sacrifice our lives. Now we have half a country, what are We afraid of? The international community nee expressed support for Yuan Shikai. Overseas Chinese all hope that we could setup e government as soon as possible and elect a President. To be safe, I think we should wait. If Yuan doesn't depose the Emperor for another 100 years, do we still wait? Let's put pressure on him, now. If Yuan makes the Emperor abdicate, do we have to keep our promise? Even if Yuan makes the Emperor abdicate, he isn't qualified to be President. Not true. If Yuan keeps his promise, he can become President. If you've promised him anyway, why bother holding an election? Good question. It's Worth it. First, we have to establish the concept of a Republic. It's just like building a road in the wilderness, so the Revolution can continue its path. In future, in China, no one can turn back. Lie down. Against the wall. All of you. Against the wall. Against the wall. He's the assassin. Release him. Who sent you here? Sun Wen is a sinner, he's corrupt, he's sullied the Qing dynasty, he's immoral, he misleads the people, he's beyond pardon. Everyone can kill him. It's no use interrogating him. We live in entirely different worlds. Yes. Two days ago, on December 27, provincial representatives voted and approved the Provisional Government Organizational Draft. They also approved the Presidential system as well as the nomination of candidates. Elections will take place today, December 29, for the position of. Provisional President. I declare each of the 17 provinces, though some with more representatives than others, is only given one vote. A candidate receiving more the two-thirds of the votes will become Provisional President. Those in favor, raise their hands. This is the Presidential ballot. Your decision is crucial. We hope you will not disappoint your people in your choice. Please fill in your ballot. Homer. Sun. What are you doing here? The Presidential election is ongoing in the conference hall. I'm one of the candidates. History, you're making history. I'm witnessing history. I'm standing right beside history. For thousands of years, in Chinese history, we the people never received the opportunity to elect the head of government. Never. That is what we've been fighting for. Our people have been fighting ongoing for so long. And now we've finally done it. Homer, when did you get here? Why didn't you tell me you were coming? Now, as head of the Assembly... I must be there. I declare the results. Out of a total of 17 votes, Sun Wen received 16. The Provisional President of the Republic of China is. Sun Wen. Dr. Sun, I heard your name. I told you, you'd be China's first President. Tang Shaoyi, didn't you say he's selfless? What an slap in the face. General. Go. Order. Feng Guozhang and Duan Qirui to issue a joint telegram against the Republic. Tang Shaoyi is sympathetic to the Republic, unable to fulfill his duties, he's dismissed as representative to the negotiations. Yes. Send a telegram to Wu Tingfang: I recognize neither the Nanjing Provisional Government nor its so-called President Sun Wen. Yat-sen, we just heard. Zhang Xun has amassed his troops around Suzhou. Also, some Qing soldiers have been sighted near Qinhuai River this afternoon. Mr. President, we advise delaying the inauguration ceremony. Yes, better to be cautious. Today is New Year's Day of 1912, everything is renewed. The Provisional President of the Republic of China must be sworn in today. Fine. I'll take care of all security details for the Provisional President. Photo session. Please, look here, here. I pledge to overthrow the Qing dynasty, strengthen the Republic of China, foster better livelihoods for all. These I promise to the people. I will follow them. I will serve the country with faith. I will serve all people. Until the hegemony of the Qing dynasty is overthrown, and the country has no strife, when China will stand tall in the World, recognized among nations. At that time, I will resign from the position of Provisional President. This is my pledge to all citizens of China. Just now, I pledged myself as the Provisional President. Now, I have a few words to add. Today, the Republic of China is established, but the feudal court still stands. Unless feudalism is uprooted, our Revolution isn't complete. I await the day I'll relinquish my position to the person who carries through the abdication of the Qing Emperor. What's going on? I'd said it before, we shouldn't rush to elect a President. The Beiyang Army has been mobilized, war will erupt very soon. I hear Yuan Shikai has even engaged assassins. Who's afraid of assassins? Mr. Sun, may I suggest, in view of the situation, please ponder this seriously. If Yuan Shikai doesn't depose the Qing court, President Sun will not step down. Does Mr. Sun want to indulge in the position of President? Wang Zhaoming, Sun Wen isn't that type. Since he's so selfless, what's the harm of my asking? It's all about trust, belief, and faith without any doubt. I'm only afraid of an all-out battle between North and South. Who'd be responsible for that? If our Revolution is stolen by someone else, who'd be responsible for that? Huang Keqiang, you... Zhaoming. Stop arguing, please. I protect you in front of everyone, but we must be frank behind closed doors. You don't have to close any doors. Just say it, Keqiang. We cannot accede to any of Yuan Shikai's demands. But he has the power. He can quickly depose the Qing court. To establish our Republic we need not only battles but also politics. This is Revolution, not giving a crown to someone else. Sun Wen, the Revolution doesn't belong to any single person. Keqiang, what do you mean? You don't understand. Idon%? You're accusing me of not understanding politics. But I know Yuan Sl'1ilai. Keqiang. You've never seen how he killed young men. I'm Worried. He might become an enemy of the Republic. He might even restore autocratic rule. It's my ninth wife's birthday. Westerners celebrate birthdays with cakes. But we don't. We eat peaches. Look how festive they ere. It hurts. Please let go. It hurts. Where's Weiting? I need to talk to him. What happened? Weiting, let's step aside. What are you afraid of? So what if I want to revolt? So what? It's high time we race against Sun Wen. Look, they haven't been idle: Electing President, setting up government. The best peaches on the tree are picked clean by others. I'll kill you. You're a madman. Stop him. Stop him. Sputtering madness. Help. Please stop him. Weiting. Calm down. Why did you hit him so hard? At this moment, I can't afford even one mistake. You're right. It's simple. I'm sitting on a bed of nails. If I don't force the court, the situation is dire: The Revolutionaries control half the country, I can't oppose them much longer. But if the Emperor abdicates because of me, I'll be blamed for generations to come. This is indeed a tricky situation. The crux of the matter is, I want to become President. When I arrived, I was resentful. But now that I've seen you, I'm no longer angry. Now, our baby is inside me. Keqiang, this painting will soon be finished. But I can't decide where to hang it. I want to propose. Wu Tingfang to issue a public statement. If the Emperor doesn't abdicate, the ceasefire will end. Whoever tarries, whoever resists, will be punished by all. If the truce cannot be maintained, we'll declare war again. If we resume war, I'll lead the troops to the North. Keqiang. You were right. I've thought long and hard. We have to establish provisional laws. It's unimportant who serves a single term. We must establish a system to restrain not only Yuan Shikai but anyone who ever dreams of becoming an emperor. Painter, please use bright red for the flag with 18 stars. Yes. Comradres, I hear you are disputing my resignation, but it takes more than a day of feudal hegemony. I do hope you will not just focus on one official title, but create a truly relevant, legally protected revolutionary system. The vvol'ldisirT1h'1ehse. Those who follow the righteous path thrive, those who do not become extinct. I hold fast to the Revolution, knowing it will bear fruit. After such a long journey, we will reach our revolutionary goal. What does Sun Wen want? What telegram? What declaration? What war? Mr. Jordan is right. It is most important to hold onto power. The President's chair isn't comfortable. Even if it's full of pins, I still Want to sit on it. The British Ambassador told me: That winter, like today, the winds were chilly, it was snowing. It was around Spring Festival, but the entire city was desolate, the atmosphere almost tragic. The guillotine was placed in the middle of the public square, icicles of blood still hanging on the blade. Louis XVI was bound and taken there. He was cold, without even a coat. He was shivering. Everyone brought their family to witness this great occasion. When the hour came, the executioner put the King's head on the block, the blade was released, there was ice on his face. Listen... Go on, Yuan Shikai. Go on. Listen. The whoosh of the blade. The whoosh of the blade. Then? Go on, Yuan Shikai. Then, the end. The end? That quick? Yuan Shikai, you're kidding. You're making this up. You've made up this story from the West for me. I reappointed you against my better conscience, yet you do this to me? Royal Prince, appease your anger. Did the French also celebrate Spring Festival? Royal Prince, calm down. Royal Prince. I've received news that. Sun Wen insists on a Republic. They will not compromise. Empress Dowager, I tell you the story of the French Revolution because I don't want you and the princes to share the same fate. I'm loyal to you. Heaven can attest to it. Yuan Shikai, come over here. Come over here. Empress Dowager I'm at your command. What if that day comes? You won't let Us face the guillotine, you won't let us starve. Certainly. Go back. The South is eager to resume battle, Empress Dowager, please ponder this. I know. I take my leave. - Prince Regent. - Here. Yuan Shikai has broken his promise, he's banded with the rebels. I do regret this. I dismiss him as Prime Minister. Things have developed thus. It won't help. They're still dragging their feet, prolonging their dynasty? They are acting against people's wishes. How they overreach themselves. They're becoming enemies of all people. What a pipe dream, thinking they can still hang on. What happened? Mr. Sun. What is it? Send a telegram, make it public. The Revolutionary Party's patience is running out. Don't these feudalists have any shame? Reporting to the Empress Dowager: Our Ambassador to Russia and others have sent telegrams to you, hoping that you treasure the Chinese people rather than insisting on one man's position. There are mutinies in the Northeast, Xinjiang and Tibet. and Duan Qirui, have signed a petition in support of the Republic. Tell me something I don't already know. Empress Dowager. We have served you and the royal court. We do not support the idea of a Republic. Please do not falter in your position. Why would I falter? It's all Yuan Shikai's doing. Yuan had betrayed Emperor Guangxu, now he betrays Emperor Xuantong. He's a real traitor. His family has received such grace from the court, yet he's such an unfilial cur. He has the ambition of Wang Mang in becoming Emperor. If the Emperor doesn't abdicate, he can't make his deal. I'd told you before, he's not to be trusted. As long as Aisin Gioro is here, the Qing Dynasty will not fall. Ancestors in Heaven, HOW other countries bully us, the Revolutionaries run wild, our ministers are corrupt, they sell whatever they can for their own gains. There's nothing left now. We have failed you. At least Sun Wen is Clement. He doesn't invade the Palace, there are no guillotines. We want a bloodless revolution, no more sacrifices... or needless killings. Abdicate. Friends, greetings. This is a historical day, let's begin. - Mr. President, this way. - Let's have a pose. How? - Mr. President, please lift up your hat. - OK. Let's change a bit. Mr. President, this way. Mr. President, you look so young. Such glib words. When you cut my queue, don't hurry, take your time, move slowly. This is a historical moment, do you understand? Yes. You talk about Revolution and Republic all the time. A Revolutionary has to have a Revolutionary look. Let me show you. Look. Ambassadors, Today I meet you as the Provisional President for the first time, also the last time. I can't believe this. Before I leave the Presidency, I hope you will request your respective governments to recognize our new country. To you and to the entire world, this is truly significant. Mr. President, how do you plan to treat the Qing royal family? They'll become citizens of the Republic. The Revolutionary Party has decided to pay the royal family 4 million taels of silver. Is that how you treat your citizens? Money cannot be a measure here. Not all revolutions need guillotines. What do you say, Mr. Ambassador? I agree. When I was in England, I once met one of your parliament members, Mr. Hillier. I told him, when China is freed, I'd invite him as my guest. I'll use Chinese liquor, Revolutionary liquor, to toast him. Come, cheers. Minbao, Xinwenbao and other newspapers nave published articles questioning your decision to step down. I read them. We're in financial trouble. We can't find funds for restitutions to the martyrs' families. We must find some money no matter how. People's representatives want to meet you. Please set up a time. Yes. Homer Lea is determined to resign from his post as Military Advisor. What's his reason? He said he won't Work with Yuan Shikai. Tell him, he's helping China, not just a person. This is a letter from Juemin. Yat-serfs been Keeping it for you. He asks that I give it to you. A few days ego, members of the Tongmenghui came to see me. They are planning a new grave. They asked that I prepare a funerary outfit. I went to the shop. When he was alive, Juemin and I always made decisions together. So I asked, Juemin, which one do you want? Only then did I know he's no longer with me. Zhongxin, this is a letter from your father. Look. "Letter to My Wife" shouldn't be kept only in this household. Keep it, let others know about it. Yesterday, the Qing Emperor abdicated, ending two millennia of monarchy. Countless revolutionaries have given up their lives for our new Republic. Today, February 13, 1912, moon of the Xinhai Year. Keep my promise, I resign from the post of President. We strive for the success of the Revolution, but do not covet recognition. We are all of the same minds to realize the goal of Revolution. The goal is to establish an independent country for the Chinese people. We build a Chinese Republic where land is divided among all. Nationalism, democracy, livelihood: These are what we strive to attain, Three Principles. Today you ask me, what does Revolution mean? Perhaps people will ask the same question a century later. Qiu Jin, our Tongmenghui member who was killed in Shaoxing, said, Revolution will provide all children a peaceful and gentle world. Lin Juemin, one of the martyrs of Huanghuagang, wrote this to his wife: Revolution seeks eternal happiness for everyone in the World. I believe the Revolution enables a republican system to reach the people. People will understand we'll fight whoever dares support the monarchy. Revolution enables factories, banks, rail roads, mines owned by Chinese to benefit the people. Revolution enables our Chinese race to become strong, no longer bullied by others. We will no longer be slaves. Revolution can take place anywhere, anytime, in any heart, forever, forever, no longer afraid of foreign powers, ridding the country of feudalism and royalty. No one will be impoverished, and the Chinese people can stand tall in the East. This is the meaning of Revolution.
