 

                        1 Rendezvous ship Essex sighted. She flies the Navy pennant. Sound the three-gun recognition salute. Aye, aye, sir. Mr. Farragut. Yes, sir. This is your end of the line. l don't know what the Navy wants you to do, but good luck in your missin. We'll do the best we can, sir. The cargo trunks will go with you. Surplus rations to follow. Whatever's in store for them, they'll need a little comfort, poor devils. Like music to me ears, Captain, singing a little song. ''Link, you're going home.' ' Three times l heard the tune now. ''Link, you're going home.' ' They finally sent relief. l thought they'd forgotten us. Not the Navy, sir. They might misplace a ship now and then, but they never lose one permanent-like. Have all hands report to service quarters. They'll be boarding us soon. Aye, aye, sir. Can l start the scuttlebutt, sir, about going home? Yes, Mr. Link, start the scuttlebutt. NARRATOR/ Latitude 14 degrees north, 74 degrees west. The middIe of the Caribbean Sea, and a young navaI officer named David Farragut who is destined to pIay an important part in one of the strangest stories ever toId about the United States Navy. OFFlCER: Starboard watch, inward turn! Why, it's Midshipman Farragut. Lieutenant David Farragut reporting, sir, with new orders for the captain of the Essex. Carry on with your orders, Mr. Farragut. The Essex is to embark upon a secret missin so hazardous that the Navy Department gives the ship's complement the choice of staying aboard or transferring to the Lexington. We've been in these waters a year now. l was under the impressin we were setting sail for home. lf such members of the complement are transferred, it's to be within the next hour. May l ask what this missin calls for? Here, sir. To be opened eight hours after sail has been set from the rendezvous. The necessary cargoes are alongside in the boats. That's all they said? Nothing about rotating the ship and sending it back? These men need a rest. As an officer, l just carry out my orders, sir. l learned that as a midshipman. You had a lot to learn as a midshipman, Mr. Farragut. You've more to learn now that you've been commissioned. Pity l can't continue teaching you. Men, the news l bring you now will not sit lightly. The Essex is not going home. lnstead, we've been ordered on a secret missin by the Navy, a missin so filled with risk that future service aboard this ship is voluntary. All men wishing to transfer to the Lexington, step forward one pace. You seem to have lost your command, sir. lt's only fair to tell you, men, rumor has it that the Lexington is not returning to the States but continuing to Africa for extended service against the slave traders. But, Captain... Something you didn't learn as a midshipman, Mr. Farragut, a ship can't sail without a crew. Now go back and tell your captain we're pulling under way. l'm to remain aboard the Essex as your executive officer, sir. A ship this size doesn't need any added commissioned personnel. Orders from the Navy Department because of the nature of the missin. l trust you will find time to continue your teaching, sir. Secret missin to who knows where, a homesick crew with a year's service, and a new square-pants executive officer from Washington. Very well. Stand by to make sail. Good evening, Mr. Link. Keep steady your course. l'll be back shortly. What course? With them new provisions aboard, we can sail on for a year from anywhere to nowhere and back again. Just keep your course, mate. As long as your keel ain't run aground, you ain't got no cause for complaint. Well, Davey, me lad, you sure have grown. Lieutenant Farragut, Mr. Link. Can't you recognize an officer? Brass buttons and all. Seems like only yesterday you was a squirt of a midshipman l was fetching out of the drink. For which l'll always be grateful. Well, petty officers must be getting scarce. l see they've made you a chief. About the time the Captain got command of this ship. We're all up in the service these days, Davey-lad. l expected him to be an admiral by now. He's got what it takes, all right. All guts and no heart. Ain't no sense in keeping that grudge forever. As an instructor, it was his job to chew midshipmen off, and just between us two, you gave him plenty of cause. When a man's religion is the book of naval regulations, he's gotta be sour inside, and our captain's a very sour man, Mr. Link. You're wrong, Davey. He lives by the book, sure, but he's never stepped out of line with the men yet. You know what, Link? l'm just waiting for the day. What day? When he takes that one big step, when he makes one move from here. l'll bet a year's pay that day never comes. Well, now, then maybe l could offer a suggestion or two, for better officer relations, mind you. What l mean is, if l knew what we was up to on this cruise... The orders are sealed. You and the men will know when we do. Mr. Farragut, l'd like to see you below, sir. Aye, aye, sir. One more thing, Davey-lad. The Lexington, she really wasn't going to service in Africa? lt's like the Captain said, Mr. Link. He's commissioned, all right. He's even lying like an officer. Come in, Mr. Farragut. Sit down, sir. Thank you, sir. Mr. Farragut, you served under me as a midshipman, and as student and instructor, our relations were, shall we say, somewhat strained. However, since you've been designated my executive, through no choice of ours, we serve together again. Yes, sir. l would like, then, to have the following understood. l'll expect nothing more or less of you than of any other officer in my command. You'll be judged solely by your actions on this ship. lt's a new book, Mr. Farragut. What goes on the pages is up to you. Do we understand each other? We do, sir. We're eight hours out from rendezvous. Time to open this box. Aye, aye, sir. Jolly Roger? What the devil, l... This is incredible. To use a ship of the line for this... We're to lose our identity, Mr. Farragut. ''Orders are to remove all visible naval identification, ''both in armament and dress, ''to act independently of government restrictions ''in seeking out the pirate fleet operating in these waters ''and report such findings to the United States naval base ''at Charleston for flotilla action.' ' Do you mean they want us to act as pirates, sir? Throw away all the discipline and order l've worked these past years to maintain, take a crew that's overdue for leave and ask them to volunteer for this kind of duty, and l'm the one who has to go up there and tell them. Yes, Mr. Link? Good evening, sir. l was just wondering if there was anything you might be wanting before l retire to my humble quarters. l suppose you heard every word. Every word, sir. And how do you think the men will take it? l just figured out a few things that might ease the pain, so to speak. lt's always darkest before the dawn, they say, Captain. Then roust them out at dawn, Mr. Link. Aye, aye, sir. That'll be all, Mr. Farragut. See you at formation. Yes, sir. Yo, ho, ho, and a bottle of rum. All gear will be weighed down and cast over the side. You'll find suitable clothing in these cargo cases. Officers will go through their belongings and destroy any papers bearing identification. We're not to put ashore at any time, and should we be forced into action, remember we are privateers. We can expect no aid or recognition from our government. Now, since we are all volunteers, we realize the importance of our missin. The pirates in these waters are raiding our merchant ships. The bureau in Washington can't spare half the Atlantic fleet to track them down. We will find them and let the Navy do the rest. This is our job. Gentlemen, we are now a ship without a country. Mr. Farragut, prepare ship for missin. Aye, aye, sir. Square away on deck, men. What's the course? West by... Well, what are you smiling at? Nothing. Nothing at all, sir. She's still dipping, sir. l'm afraid we're in for a rough one. l'll go forward and take a fix. Who stands the late watch? Mr. Farragut, sir. Have the mate send Mr. Farragut my compliments. l want to see him on deck. Aye, aye, sir. Give us a hand, mate. Captain. l didn't know... l mean, that it was you, sir. The phrase ''comrade in arms'' does not mean slapping the Captain overboard, Mr. Link. What's that rum casket doing on deck? Well, l was figuring, this being a pirate ship, we should have the rum casket where all can see it, sir. l'm not aware l made you officer in charge of ship alterations. Now, get rid of it, and report back to me. Yes, sir. Right away, sir. l suppose next they'll want me to do a hornpipe from the rigging. Lieutenant Farragut reporting as ordered, sir. l'm sorry, sir, but that getup... l'm glad my appearance delights you. May l say you look more in character out of uniform? And what's that medallion around your neck? Does it bear any personal identification? No, sir. lt just says Guierre, the name of the new training ship from which l was commissioned. Get rid of it. But, sir, it's my good-luck piece. l'm sure it couldn't be identified. l said get rid of it, Mr. Farragut. What goes for one goes for all. l took a fix. The winds are rising with every indication we're in for a big blow. You ever handled a ship during a storm? No, sir. This is your chance. Storm should hit its peak during your watch. Keep the lifeline secure, and report any structure damage. Come with me. Yes, Chief Petty Officer Link? Reporting as ordered, sir. Continue your account of the rum casket. Well, like l was saying, a privateer needs a rum casket on deck, like in those stories and songs, so l borrowed the rum from sickbay. But this is not a privateer. lt's a United States man-of-war. Rum rations are for the sick. You know the law of the sea. lt's confusing, sir. First, we're pirates. Then we're Navy. lt gets a fellow all muddled up in his thinking. lf l may say so, sir, l think Mr. Link has a point. The rum should be left on deck. A very good suggestion, Lieutenant. And Mr. Link should be responsible for it at all times, sir. l'll guard it with my life, so help me. Do that, Mr. Link. Guard it 24 hours a day, and when this tour of duty is finished, l'm going to break it open, and if there's as much as one mouthful missing from the present count, you'll lose your rank and your pensin. But, Captain... Carry on. Yes, sir. Stand your watch, Mr. Farragut. You want me, l'll be below. Yes, sir. l mean what l say, Lieutenant. l don't want to see that medallion again. You ever see a big blow, Mr. Link? Of course, Davey-lad. Well, they're commanding ships nowadays. Just thought you'd like to know. Lifelines secured, sir. Order the watch below. Keep the deck clear of crew. Aye, aye, sir. Keep her steady into the storm. Get below! Let's clear the planks. Step with it, mates! Help! Help! Did you hear that, sir? LlNK: Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Cargo's free on the foredeck. Count to 35, mister, then throw her hard to starboard. lf she hits some waves broadside, she'll crack in two. lt's hard to starboard on the count of 35. Now start to count. Aye, aye, sir. One. Two. Two. Three. Four. Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. Ten. Eleven. Twelve. Thirteen. Fourteen. Fifteen. Sixteen. Seventeen. Eighteen. Nineteen. Davey-lad, l... Count! Twenty. Twenty-one. Twenty-two. Twenty-three. Twenty-three. Twenty-four. Twenty-four. Twenty-five. l can't call the deck watch... Twenty-six. ...or they'll all find out about your blasted thirst! Twenty-seven. Now, grab my arm on the count of 33. Twenty-eight. And lurch out at 35. You got that? Twenty-nine. Thirty. Thirty-one. Thirty-one. Thirty-two. Thirty-two. Thirty-three. Thirty-three. Thirty-four. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Rudder smashed! Rudder smashed! Get below without a word. But, Davey... Not a word to anyone, you understand? You weren't on deck. This evens us up, Mr. Link. Now move on. Aye, aye, sir. Where away, mister? Full starboard command from Mr. Farragut, sir. The rudder's been busted. Stand general quarters. Stand to general quarters! Full starboard. Was that your command, Mr. Farragut? Aye, sir. Full starboard into a storm? The deck cargoes broke loose, sir. You've got a crew. Why didn't you use them? l was afraid the men would be chopped down by the loose end. They're sailors. A common seaman wouldn't yield to starboard in a storm. Can't get through without a rudder. We'll have to lighten our load and try to roll over it. Jettison all bulk cargo and supplies. We won't hold out a week like that, sir. l don't envy you, Mr. Farragut. You won't be the most popular man aboard after we ride out this storm. lf we ride it out. What's the damage, Mr. Considine? Well, the check chains on the rudder have been carried away, sir. They could be reset to last until we head to port. How long will it take? Two, maybe three hours. The Caribbean is shark water. l won't risk men down there that long. Thank you, Mr. Considine. Aye, aye, sir. Still west by northwest, Mr. Farragut? West by northwest, sir. We're drifting into the Gulf Stream current. With luck and some wind for our sails, it will carry us to the West lndies. There, we'll take on provisions and repair the damage. That's if we don't run into the pirate fleet first. Without a rudder, we'd be a sitting target. Carry on, Lieutenant, and pray for clear sailing. Oh, Captain? Yes? l'd like to volunteer for salvage-diving duty, sir. l'm aware of the many things on your conscience, sir, and also that a rudderless ship of short rations takes longer to reach its destination, but l won't let the sharks get any part of you. l want my executive officer to stand court-martialed on both feet. Word from sickbay, sir. Doctor confirms report. lt's scurvy that Harrison's down with. Any fresh food or potatoes left aboard? No, sir. Mr. Farragut? Yes, sir? The men need a tonic. Break out a rum ration for ship's complement. Mr. Link will supervise. Carry on. Aye, aye, sir. l'm sorry for showing me thirst, Davey-lad, and causing you all this hurt. Let me tell the Captain... Secure all hands for rum ration, Mr. Link. Then we'll have our say. Aye, aye, sir. Forsythe. Forsythe, draw ration for one. Christie. Christie, draw ration for one. Rum issue completed, sir. Thank you, Mr. Redell. Well, that does it, Davey-lad. Now for old Link's ration. l suggest you save some of that until after we fix the rudder, Mr. Link. The rudder? l ain't fixing no rudder. You heard the Captain say those fish bite hard. Topside at eight bells. We're responsible for this mess, and l couldn't be in much more trouble. Bring a lubber hose from the forecastle, and not a word to anyone. But you're not listening, Davey. Eight bells, Chief. The blooming gold braid knew how hard l worked for this drink, they'd make me an admiral for my drive and spirit. All clear, Davey-lad. Good. Now, my idea is to replace the shackle on the stay chains. But it ain't enough. She'll break away again. lt's worth a last chance to try to sail her in. There's no guarantee we'll drift to port before the food runs out and the scurvy gets worse. Hand me that lubber hose. Now, two pulls on this rope brings me up. Lower away. Stand-by watch! On the double! Get below. l'll take care of him. You all right, Davey-boy? The shark almost got me. No chance to fix those stay chains. But you were told not to try to fix the stay chains, Mr. Farragut. You will remain to quarters until further orders. Aye, aye, sir. Better fetch the doctor. That won't be necessary, sir. l'm quite all right. Captain Porter, sir. Look. LlNK: lt's the wind, sir. lt's come. We'll be blown into the currents. Well... lt appears, Mr. Farragut, in spite of you, we may reach land. Bosun, all hands. Loosen all canvas. Square away and stand by. All hands! Six days of this drifting. Those topsiders don't know where we're headed. Farragut's the one. What with his navigation, we'll never see home again. Mr. Redell. Yes, sir. You're sure these figures are accurate? They've been double-checked, sir. Even at half rations, there's barely enough supplies for three days more. ln that case, we'll cut to quarter rations. lnform the crew and officers. Aye, aye, sir. SAlLOR: Hungry, you say? Now, how can that be? You ate yesterday, didn't you? Sure. Why, look at him. He's fat as a pig. Why, l'll bet if you was to put a nice juicy leg of lamb in front of him right this moment... What's all the fussing, lads? We was figuring what we was gonna eat next, the mainsail or our shoes. That's enough from you. Mend your nets and be quiet about it. SAlLOR 2: Land ho! Where away? Dead ahead. Land, sir. Where away? Dead ahead, sir. Take soundings for it. Anchor at six fathoms. Prepare landing parties. Aye, aye, sir. Now, Mr. Farragut, if you'll join me in my cabin? Yes, sir. By my calculations, we're somewhere along the Mosquito Coast, in here. We've reached a natural harbor, so we'll have a chance to fix the rudder. You'll take a party ashore and provisin up. Now, this is Spanish territory, and, as pirates, we have no landing rights. My orders are to create no incident. Do l make myself clear? Very clear, sir. Move ashore and get the provisions. Aye, aye, sir. Mr. Farragut. l'm putting you in charge of this expedition because l need my gunnery and salvage officers aboard. You'll please me no end by accomplishing one missin without breaking any naval regulations. And if we run into trouble, sir? You know the answer. To save the ship and the nature of the missin, l'd be forced to abandon you and sail away. Has the Captain any instructions in the case of that emergency? The men will have to fend for themselves. lt shouldn't be too difficult for you, Mr. Farragut. You've worked alone during most of your naval career. Come in. That'll be all, Mr. Farragut. Yes, Mr. Redell? Good news, Captain. The doctor reports our single case of scurvy's in check, and with fresh supplies coming aboard, there's little chance of another outbreak. Yes, sir, l'd say we have nothing more to fear. Mr. Redell, with Mr. Farragut loose ashore, there's always something to fear. Secure craft. Mr. Link, forward. Separate the men into small groups. Pick anything from the trees and land that's edible. Aye, aye, sir. On the double, Link. This is strange country. Oh, relax, Davey-lad. Ain't a thing gonna bother you. Water beakers are filled, sir. Good. Well, that's about the last of it. Fire the completion signal, and we'll move out. Very good, sir. Redell. Yes, sir? You seen Link? Not since he and Beckett went off scrounging, sir. lt's past time they were back. l'm going to check. Here. Take two boats back to the ship. Leave a crew for me. We'll return presently. Aye, aye, sir. Crew on boats one and two. Stand by to return. I mash 'em I muck 'em I grow 'em I truck 'em Yo, ho, ho, it's the Iife for me I mash 'em I muck 'em Mr. Link, what in blazes are you doing? A method of mine, sir, for refilling the keg, crushed wine with me own feet. Add a little alcohol from sickbay, and we've a drink onboard for emergencies. Beckett, are you in on this? Well, l was... He's with me, sir, by my instructions. l told you once before our accounts are squared. Now, l've seen none of this, Mr. Link. lt's all your problem to explain away. l'm heading back for the boat. We shove off in short order with or without you. As the saying goes, Beckett-lad, looks like l put both feet in it this time. Report, Mr. Considine. Rudder's been fixed, sir. She's ready to go. Good. Mr. Redell. Shore party all onboard? Well, not exactly, sir. Mr. Farragut and Mr. Link aren't back yet. What happened to them? They'll be along, sir. Along? What do you mean, along? Well, that's all Mr. Farragut said, Captain, when he ordered me back. Farragut again. Probably dreams of capturing the island single-handedly and raising the American flag. Well! Well! ls that all you have to say? lt will cover my sentiments for now. Then l will speak. You are the Captain of the ship in the harbor? No, lovely lady, l am not. But you're an officer of that ship. Well, for the present, yes. l wish to buy passage. Passage? Well, isn't it customary to ask where a ship is bound for first? lt does not matter, and l pay gold. A beautiful woman from nowhere ready to pay gold for passage to anywhere? lt doesn't make sense. Do l or do l not get passage? No, you don't. My ship is a privateer. We can't... l was afraid such an emergency might arise. Shall we go? l have little choice, but as for my captain, that pistol will do no good. His stomach is made of steel. How long we gonna wait, Mr. Link? We've waited long enough. l got that feeling. l'm going after him. lf we ain't back by dusk, you go back to the ship. But, Mr. Link... Do as l say. lt's Mr. Farragut. Yeah. But what with? Davey-lad, we were just going after you. Who are all these characters? These characters carry the wardrobe of our passenger. Passenger? You know we can't take a passenger. And just in case you're not convinced... Yes, l guess we can take a passenger. Beckett, have those lndians stow the gear, and we'll move out. This way. Davey-lad, what's the skipper gonna say about her? l shudder to think, Mr. Link. l shudder to think. Captain Porter, sir? Yes? Long boat approaching. All hands onboard? Hard to tell, sir. Mr. Redell? Yes, Captain? ls that a woman? ls who a woman, sir? The woman in the boat with Mr. Farragut. That ain't no woman, sir. That's Mr. Link. Since when does a chief wear skirts and blouses? Give Mr. Farragut my compliments. Ask him to join me with his companion. Aye, aye, sir. Compliments of the Captain, sir. He requests that... l know, Mr. Redell. lf you'll follow me, please. Captain Porter, this is... Yes, Mr. Farragut? l am the Countess Margarita La Reguna, and l wish passage. This ship carries no passengers. That's what l told her, sir, but she can convince you. lndeed. How can she convince me? With that pistol she carries in her traveling bag, sir. l'll relieve you of your sidearms. There's no pistol here. But... Believe me... Would you wait in my cabin, please? Mr. Redell will show you the way. This way, Miss. Mr. Farragut, at what now seems an eternity, you brought orders for this command to seek out the pirate fleet. Since then, you have smashed my ship in a storm, risked lives against my orders, and now, at the point of a gun which l cannot find, you've brought a female passenger onboard, but no pirates, Mr. Farragut. We've been so busy covering your mistakes, there's been no time for pirates. l doubt if Captain Kidd himself could have scuttled this missin more successfully than you have. Now, what about this woman? lt's as l said, sir. She paid some lndians to bushwhack me, then forced me to bring her aboard. What does she know about this ship? Nothing, sir. Very well. Follow me. We'll put her ashore. Put her back in place, Beckett-lad. And no officer's the wiser. Yeah, but if the Captain... The Captain's got his head full now. A lovely lady is all the wine an officer needs. Countess, there's no sense wasting time. l've given orders to put you ashore. But l will pay well. l have gold. The lndians didn't take it from you? The lndians were my friends. They protected me when l left Foxardo. Foxardo? We've drifted into the heart of the Spanish territory. Suppose you tell me the truth. There was no gun, was there? No gun, sir. l brought her aboard because she needed help. You realize this is a further admissin of your guilt, Mr. Farragut. Yes, sir. All l want is the truth. Now, Countess, what is the truth? That l am Portuguese, but for many years, l've lived in Brazil, so now l feel that Rio is my home. You're a long way from home. Too long. But when Napoleon overran Europe, the royal family and many of the nobility, my family among them, fled to Brazil, taking with them their priceless belongings. Now, with all the danger passed, the King has returned to his throne in Portugal. Well, isn't that where he belongs? lf he so chooses, but many of us do not feel the same. Like you Americans, we prefer the New Worid with its freedoms and its opportunities for all, and we'll fight for this independence of thought and action. But l don't see quite how all this... The King demands a return to Portugal, not only of ourselves but of all our woridly goods. Which you refused? lf a young country is to survive, it must have trade alliances. All our gold and valued possessions are collected for that purpose. Just where do you fit into all this political maneuvering? My father and l were returning from England, where the trade alliances were made. ln payment, our ships sail from Rio in three months with all our fortunes on them, unless l stop them. Why do that? My father carried sailing instructions for our fleet. ln Havana, we were attacked by Portuguese agents. l managed to escape, but my father was killed, and his papers were stolen. With these plans known, our ships are sure to be attacked, and they must be warned. Suppose all this is true, you must realize that we are privateers. We do not head toward Rio. But at least you sail the seas, and there is chance of transfer to a vessel bound towards home, but on land, l have no chance at all. Come in. Excuse me, sir. The lady's baggage. Bring it aboard, and prepare to sail. Aye, aye, sir. Thank you. Thank you very much. l must warn you, this is a privateer, and you must assume all risks. You're aboard as a political refugee asking passage. l take no sides. l understand. Very well, you may use this cabin. l'll double up with Mr. Farragut. lf you'll excuse me, l'll get underway. What did you do with that pistol? lt served its purpose. l slipped it into the water. Besides, it was bare of ammunition. Very well done, Your Highness. You lied for me. lt was appreciated. Lovely lady, please pray that l grow to be a very old man. Why, l will, but why? Because only a man past 90 will smell salt air again after the Captain finishes with me. Set course a big circle, and close the gaps. lf there are any pirate ships in these waters, we'll find them. Aye, aye, sir. When the spinner goes over the rail, the number of knots on the line to run out during a 28-second interval is equal to the speed of the ship through water. After a few more lessons, Captain, l'll be ready for my master's paper. When you sign on your crew, l hope you'll think of me as first mate, perhaps. l think not. Somehow l can't imagine you as anything but a captain. l'm not sure that's a compliment. Well, of course it is. There's something most impressive about a man whose only thoughts are of his duties and responsibilities. Perhaps before too long l'll be less bound by duty and responsibility. Time for your afternoon stroll, Countess. l hope l haven't kept you waiting. Oh, no, l've been well occupied. Would the Captain care to join us? Why, yes. Yes, of course. Mr. Farragut, cargo secured? Yes, sir. Watches posted? Yes, sir. Sick report filed? Yes, sir. You're very efficient, Mr. Farragut. Thank you, sir. Countess? SAlLOR: Sail ho! Where away? Bearing fine on larboard quarter. Can't get her colors, but she flies the recognition pennant. How is she heading? Starboard tack, close-hauled, closing fast, sir. Up helm. Back your topsail! Square away fore and main! Belay! Mr. Farragut? Yes, sir? ln view of our missin, l'd like to avoid a fight if possible. However, if it comes to a showdown, pipe stand to quarters, Mr. Farragut, and clear for action. Aye, aye, sir. Stand to quarters! Clear for action! She's hoisted her colors, sir, but still wants recognition. Can you make her out? Not yet, sir. She wants our colors, sir. She'll have to wait. Why doesn't the Captain show his flag? Well, you see, ma'am, we're privateers-like. We got no country. Awkward, ain't it? We better get something on that flag mast before they blow us to bits. Quarters cleared for action, sir. My glass, Mr. Link. Aye, aye, sir. Now, Countess, l suggest you go to your cabin. l prefer to take my chances on deck. ln that case, l must insist. l can't assume responsibility for your safety here. Mr. Redell. Yes, Captain? Take the Countess to her cabin. Aye, aye, sir. This way, Countess. CAPTAlN: White field, green St. George's cross. She's Portuguese, sir. CAPTAlN: First-class ship of the line. That means she carries twice the guns and crew that we have aboard. Now we're really in for it. l've tried to avoid hoisting our colors with a girl aboard, but the missin comes first. Shall l break out the flag, sir? Not yet. Save it as a surprise. lt should have some shock value. Meantime, have the men draw sidearms, and prepare for heavy action. lf we have to fight, Mr. Farragut, let's be sure to win. Aye, aye, sir. And still she flies no flag? No, sir. Fire another warning across her bow, close across her bow! Stand by bow gun. That didn't miss by much. lt missed, didn't it? Stand by and hold fast. Mr. Farragut, secure the pennant from the flag box, and break it aloft at my command. Aye, aye, sir. Men! That ship bearing down on us has twice our range and firepower. We've got to get 'em in tight before we let go a broadside. l want them in so close you can spit in their eyes after loading. Light your ready matches, cast loose, prime and stand by! Closer in. We'll show those pigs who refuse us recognition. Steady. Stand by to fire! Steady. Mr. Farragut. Yes, sir? Break her aloft. Aye, aye, sir. Hold your fire! Run up the parley pennant, quick. Quick! She runs the parley pennant, sir. All stations stand fast. What do you think, sir? That he wants to talk, Mr. Farragut, so we'll talk. There's little choice. Let me go! Let me go! So you're privateers? You're pirates. You're black-hearted pirates. Redell, take her below and lock her cabin. Aye, aye, sir. Now, Mr. Farragut, shall we go back to the war? Make fast for parley. Aye, aye, sir. Make fast for parley! l am the captain of this ship. You wish to talk? You speak bravely, Captain. Perhaps because you know your safety is assured. l know of no agreements concerning me. You are wise, Captain. Secrets should be well-guarded. No doubt it serves a purpose to have you at sea, but in the future, it should be wiser to identify yourself sooner. My men live for the cannon's roar. Until we meet again. Full half turn and all sail. All hands remain at battle stations. l don't know what it's all about, but it looks like the last of them, sir. l wonder, Mr. Farragut. l wonder. This narrow escape has made me realize how wrong it was to keep you aboard. When our provisions run out, l shall return you to the islands. You'll be safer there. So the pirate captain returns me to Del Prado. l should not be surprised. Del Prado? Are we to pretend that the Governor General of the Spanish possessions in the lndies is unknown to you? Believe me, Countess, l know nothing... l cannot. l've seen too many of your sort while imprisoned at Foxardo. lt is for your safety alone that l must return you to land. Must we continue this playacting, Captain? There's nothing you can say to overcome your actions. ln that case, l'll be blunt. ln a fortnight, our provisions will be gone, and l'll return to the islands. At that time, you'll be free of us. And Del Prado will hold you high in favor, be assured. l'm truly sorry that you think so ill of me. She wants no part of it. She told me so. The Countess also told me other things. What other things, sir? She mentioned a Spaniard named Del Prado, Governor General of the islands, close in contact with the pirates. Yet we've seen no pirates, Captain. The Countess has, at Foxardo. All banded together and giving up plundering the shipping lanes, but for what, Mr. Farragut? For what? That gold from Brazil. Exactly. ln some way, they're working with the Portuguese. That's why we got off with our lives today. But you say this Del Prado's Spanish. They have no part in this quarrel. Our rations will last us a fortnight and no more. Then, l'll be justified in returning to shore for supplies. Course east by nor' east! East by nor' east, sir. l think we'll find the answer to this mystery of the sea on land, Mr. Farragut, at Foxardo. Ah, my good Captain, how does it fare? l have news of great importance. More so than you will find in that book. You are wrong, my friend, for in the books are the answers to all of Man's problems, and you have a problem, dear Captain. lt is written all over your face. l encountered pirates. Pirates? Why was l not told that some of them were still at sea? But Captain Scarjack assured me... Nevertheless, the pirate flag was flying. Only my quick thinking prevented bloodshed. l have given no orders since you left weeks ago. lf that is so, then why... You say they flew the pirate flag. That is strange, for l have kept our bargain to the letter. l was about to board her, for she flew no colors. Then, as we came in contact, the skull and bones rose from her mast. You spoke to the Captain? Yes, but he told me nothing. l did not press the point since our crew is not in my confidence. Furthermore, l believed him to be under your orders. This Captain, did he speak your tongue? No, he spoke the language of the American colonials. He's ready to speak, my lord. Bring him forward. Perhaps my lndian brother is convinced that telling the truth is much easier than a visit to the tower. Speak out. Where is she? What does he say? She went aboard a ship that had stood by for provisions. The men spoke a strange language that she understood. So... Take him away. l wondered how the Countess escaped me, Poulini. Now l know. She was aboard that ship you encountered. What makes you so sure? Since her escape, no other ship has touched these shores without being searched. Hello, Del Prado. l wish you would not address me so. lt does not look well. l will try to remember, Count. l'm glad you're here, Captain Scarjack. Poulini claims he encountered pirates. Pirates? lmpossible! They flew the pirate flag. And l say they are not pirates! Every pirate ship in the Caribbean is at anchor, waiting for the word to move. Then, my colleagues, they are not pirates. Also, they are not Brazilians, or they would have left these waters when the Countess came aboard, yet they stay. Then who are they? Unless l am mistaken, they are the American Navy. Sailing under a pirate flag? This confuses me, l admit, but if they are concerned with us, they will return again. You see, Poulini, the answers are all in the book, and, as Homer says, Man's mind, when tempered with time, will return to the scene of the crime. We will wait, gentlemen, patiently, for our American friends. Good evening, Mr. Farragut. l hope l'm not intruding. Well, Countess, this is a pleasant surprise. Your cabin door's been locked so long, l thought you'd thrown away the key. lf you had knocked tonight, you would have found it open. l wish to talk to you alone. Now that's a change in tactics l approve of. There's quite a bit l want to say to you and very little time to say it in. Then we sight land before long? By this time tomorrow. And am l still to be put ashore? Those are the Captain's orders. Don't judge him too harshly. l know he feels it's for your good. To be delivered to Del Prado? You'll be delivered to no one. l'm to go ashore and find your lndian friends. l wish l understood you better. At times, you seem of gentle breeding. You're considerate. You're kind. You make me feel as if l can turn to you for help. You can. Then try to show your Captain l'd be safer here onboard than put ashore. And if l try, will you do me one favor in return, no matter what his answer? Perhaps. Then if you have to leave this ship, and only then, wear this medallion around your neck. To what purpose? Say as a bond between us, until l can prove my good intentions. Guierre. A ship you sank, perhaps? There's no dishonor attached to it. lt's brought me luck. l hope it does the same for you. You're most convincing, Mr. Farragut. l hope the Captain finds you that way, too. But since we know he's involved with pirates, why not fight him out in the open? Our orders read to find, not fight, the pirate fleet. Your present missin is to search for food but, more importantly, to learn just where these ships are anchored and if Del Prado leads them or protects them. And if l meet Del Prado face to face? CAPTAlN: Tell him... Tell him that we know of his plans and hope to aid in their fulfillment. Explain that you've been sent ashore by me to find out if he welcomes our proposal. Point out that we'd be a fine addition to his ranks. What about the girl? You've convinced me, Mr. Farragut. The Countess will remain onboard until l'm sure she'll meet no harm ashore. Thank you, sir. But please remember, should you fail in the missin, expect no help from me. My job is to save the ship. l understand, sir. Oh, Mr. Farragut. Yes, sir? Good luck. Thank you. Join me, gentlemen. The wine is superb. l drink with my own kind. Now, what is it you want? l see, my dear Scarjack, that our social levels will never be joined. However, l have news. The so-called pirate ship has returned, as l said it would. Her sails have been sighted. She should drop anchor before long. Good. l'll rake her bottom. Oh, no, Scarjack, you will not rake her. You will leave the ship and the crew to me to dispose of as l see fit. You're daft. She'll make a grand prize. You seem to forget that l'm still an official of the Spanish government. My country is at peace with the American colonies. But what do you suggest? Plans have been brought to me by my agents in Havana. They contain the sailing date, armament and course to be followed by he Brazilian ships in their run from Rio to London, also, a point marked well on the map where we will intercept them. And soon, l hope. My men are growing restless. They've been holed up too long on shore. We still have time, my friend. Time we'll use to dispose of our American friends. You will then be free to sail with the knowledge the Brazilian ships will not be warned. l'll drink to that with pleasure. Help yourself, Captain. Remember, once the gold is secured, we no longer need the protection of the Portuguese. l will take care of Poulini. Good. And one thing more, my friend. Only you and l will know the place of interception. l suggest we remain friends, or eventually the entire Spanish armada will breathe down your dirty neck. l'll not cross you. To my King, whose supreme generosity allows you to share in the prize, for helping get back what is rightfully his. Of course, Poulini, drink up. Drink up. Ready to shove off? Yes, sir. Remember, find out what you can, but don't risk the men. l'll do the best l can, sir. Don't worry. She'll be here when you return, and, Mr. Farragut, l'll be here, too. Shove off. As before, Mr. Link, and on the double. Supplies can wait, Davey-lad. We got company. Gonna do something about it? Yes, l'm going to hear what he has to say. You are the leader of these men? l am. Then, seor, you will tell your men to come with me. And if l choose not to? That would be a mistake. We're to be taken prisoner? Not prisoner, seor. We merely want to ask some questions about your ship. Very well. l'll leave a guard for the longboat. l will leave the guards. Now, shall we go? Link, that ambush means they know something's up. You've got to get back and tell the Captain to sail away before it's too late. What'll you do, being left behind? We'll figure that out later. l'll not leave you, Davey-lad. You'll go back. That's an order. l'll get you loose as soon as l find a chance. Buck. Jack. All right, get set. Take care, Davey. Herd them into the castle. Ahoy, man afloat off starboard rail! Can you make him out? No, sir, but he's plugging to us. Heave him a line. Aye, aye, sir. CAPTAlN: Haul away. Bring him up. What happened? Those Spaniards knew something was up and ambushed us. Davey picked a fight to spring me loose. He told me to tell you to sail out of here before they get the ship, too. Get him some rum. We're out of rum, sir. Wouldn't you know? Go on, get out of here. They left two guards at the boat on the beach. They took the rest of them back to the castle. l'll get some boys and go after them. We can't go after them. You mean you're gonna let Davey rot in that place? He knew the risks. Sure he did, like the time he took the blame during the storm. lt was my life he saved by turning the wheel. l was pegged to the side while sneaking some rum. There, l feel better for telling you. Captain Porter, she's gone, the Countess. We checked the ship. She's nowhere aboard. Are you sure? Positive, sir, we looked all over. lf she's jumped ship, there's nothing we can do about it. But Davey... l can't endanger the lives of the men. Well, then how about volunteers? l'm sure the boys would rather fight than let their shipmates rot in a cell. You realize a raiding party is in direct violation of my orders? Yes, sir. That l could be court-martialed for landing armed men on the soil of a friendly nation? Yes, sir. All right, let's go. Mr. Redell, get me some powder fuses and flint rock. Watchers, lower the boats. The rest of you draw arms. Well, Mr. Link, you're probably witnessing the end of a long and honorable naval career. Yes, sir, but what a way to go, sir. Ooh! So my young friend feels better, huh? l don't believe l've had the pleasure. Then allow me to introduce myself. l'm the Count Del Prado, Governor General of His Majesty's Spanish possessions. Del Prado? Yes. You speak as if you've heard the name. No. No, l was just trying to see if my mind still functions. Mmm. lt was a silly gesture to try to escape like that. There was no need for such heroics, you know. Now, shall we talk? Who are you and what is your missin? l sail a ship. We haul cargoes. And fly the pirate's flag. This l know, but who are you really? Who flies the pirate flag but pirates? l have never heard of such men from the colonies. Even colonials have a price. A profound observation from one as young as you. The ship l sail is well-manned. We seek a charter. Perhaps, if l am convinced, there is a task l would... Let me go! Let me go! Let me go! Let me go! She was caught by the guards, swimming ashore. Obviously not contented with life aboard your ship, Captain. ls that true, Countess? Was the Captain's treatment that bad? He is no captain, and if he were, l would have still freed myself. So you're not the man l seek, after all. Place yourself in our position, Del Prado. lf we are accepted here as friends, the Captain has ample time to come ashore, and if not, he can just sail the ship away. What happens to you if he sails away? Chances one takes in this professin. l was uncertain as to the reception you would afford us, but now that our defenses are down, we can talk. Ask the lady about us. She was onboard when the pirate flag was raised. ls this so? Yes. He and his men are the breed you do business with, and l want no part of them. l imagine this is yours. l was in the Spanish Court when the Guierre was sold to the Americans for the specific purpose of becoming a naval officers' training ship. The purchase was widely heralded to all Spanish subjects as a token of our friendships. Or do you wish to tell me you pirates attacked American men-of-war, too? Now, who are you? Very well. You will have a short time to decide that telling the truth is less painful than the tortures of my chamber. Take them to the tower. Guards. Davey, did Del Prado tell the truth? You're not pirates? We're American men of war. Our missin was to break up this conspiracy. And l betrayed you. You couldn't know. l could have trusted you and did when you gave me the medallion, but then l overheard you talking to the Captain and thought you meant to hand me over to Del Prado, so l escaped. To this. l'm truly sorry, not for myself but for you and your men and the failure of your missin. We knew the risks. You didn't. So many times l wanted to explain but wasn't able to. l understand. A little late but still in time for all my doubts of you to be resolved. And all your questions? Answered. So far, so good, Captain. Signal the boats to come ashore. Aye, aye, sir. Pull them ashore. All ashore, sir. Spread the powder along the edge of the footpath. Aye, aye, sir. What time does the guard change at the castle? l guess he doesn't savvy us, Captain. We'll just have to cut his head off. No! No, no, seor. l tell. The guard, it change again at the midnight time. How many in the guard? Twenty. Sometimes less. You see yourself as they ride to castle. And l know just where we can observe them from. Tie him up. Aye, aye, sir. Powder set as ordered, sir. Good. All ready to go, sir. All right, Mr. Link, let's have some shore leave in Foxardo. Follow me, and keep a sharp lookout. Through experience, l have discovered that the ancient methods are most effective. l venture that, in future times, more ingenious devices will be used in gaining confessions. However, for the present, this will suffice. Unpleasant, isn't it, to share all this with other political prisoners? Since your crew have not the detailed information l seek, it is you l turn to. Very well, then. We will proceed, huh? l'm afraid there's a limit to nobility, even for Americans. Guard change reporting. Dismount. Tie and gag him. Quiet now, until we find out where... That's where! Let's go. l wish you could share this drink with me, my friend. lt would refresh you. lt is not my nature to be inhospitable. l apologize for your discomfort. Now, may l ask again what your missin is? Bring her here. Look there. Look there, l say. Maybe this will convince you once and for all, my friend, that l mean to get the truth. Now, do l get the information, or must the Countess face the rack, too? You patriots are all alike. Resist to the last. CAPTAlN: To the very last! You're Del Prado, l presume. l am the Count Del Prado, Governor General of his... That's all l want to know. Take him. Are you all right? Yes, thanks to you, sir. Mr. Link, you're hurt? No. l feel just fine. l mash 'em. l muck 'em... - Beckett, take care of Mr. Link. He has a bellyful. Let's shove off. All right, let's move out. Open up. But it is past time. The gates remain closed after midnight. This is special detail. They lie! What is the cause for alarm? They have kidnapped the Count and ridden towards the beach. Follow me. Everybody in the longboats! Hurry! That'll take care of them till we're ready to fight. l doubt that they'll fight with the Count onboard. We can rest easy for a spell. You have committed a great blunder in bringing me here. l represent the Kingdom of Spain. You also represent a pirate fleet. The King may not approve of that. He'll know such charges are a lie, unless you can furnish proof. You'll furnish it yourself before you leave this ship. l'll not say a word. Very well. Mr. Farragut? Yes, sir? l take it we're still masquerading as pirates. Therefore, l suggest we act out the end of this drama. Run out the plank. Aye, aye, sir. Run out the plank. Aye, aye, sir. But surely you can't be serious about this. l'm too deeply involved to stop short now. Blindfold, Mr. Beckett. This'll keep you from seeing the sharks. Bosun, pipe the plank. All right, walk him down. Captain Porter? Yes? l submit. Mr. Redell. Aye, aye, sir. Untie him. Well? This map, it tells of the pirates' rendezvous with the Brazilians. Thank you for your cooperation. Now, l demand to be put ashore as quickly as possible. So you will be. The moment we reach our fleet base in Charleston, l'll escort you ashore personally. Mr. Redell. This way, Your Highness. l'll have you broken from the service, l will. These documents are to be handed over to the proper authorities in Charleston. lt appears, Countess, that your fleet will have a safe crossing, after all. For a while, l was afraid he wouldn't talk. For a while, Mr. Farragut, l was more afraid than you. Oh, Captain Porter? Yes, Mr. Farragut? l just wanted to say thank you, sir. Weigh anchor! Hands, make sail! Braces and sheets! Take her as she fills. Set course north by northwest for Charleston. A fine cruise, sir. 'Tis a shame for Lieutenant Farragut it might end so badly. After what l've done, l've a feeling the court-martial will be mine. Davey-boy's grown up. Yes, Mr. Link. l daresay this cruise on the Essex has made us a man. The End @
