 

                        the once mighty empire of the Tang Dynasty has fallen into ruin Rebellion has spread across the land and its insurgents have proclaimed their own kingdoms This is the period known as the "Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms" It was an era plagued by widespread turmoil treachery amongst government officials and a bitter struggle for power within the imperial family Against this backdrop our story begins What blessed night is this? Drifting down the River Qian What auspicious day is this? Dreaming beside my prince A tender affection has blossomed between the maiden Little Wan and young Prince Wu Luan but his father, the Emperor, marries Little Wan himself Desperate, Prince Wu Luan disappears into the Southern heartlands seeking solace in the art of music and dance Three years later Prince Wu Luan's uncle has killed his brother, the Emperor and usurped the throne and the Empress Empress Wan secretly sends her messengers to warn Prince Wu Luan of the assassination and urge his return But she is unaware the new Emperor has already dispatched assassins to prevent Prince Wu Luan's return Trees live on mountains and branches live on trees My heart lives for your heart but you do not see me... From her Majesty the Empress to Prince Wu Luan Our country has suffered a great loss Your father, the Emperor, has passed away Your uncle has usurped the throne Return at once on receipt of this Father... This helmet does not sit well on you To call Your Emperor "you" is not appropriate The correct address is "Your Majesty" It is hard for me to adapt so quickly Brother-in-law Indeed this is not a good fit I shall have a new one made The kingdom shall not wait Seal the door Sister-in-law The correct address is "Empress" Your brother should not have trusted you The death of the late Emperor had nothing to do with me Is the Crown Prince still alive? Sister-in-law seems very concerned I am his step-mother after all He is 4 years older than you are Brother-in-law is familiar with the way I remove my make-up Not just your make-up but also the way you enter your bath Will brother-in-law let the Prince go free? Will you let my hand go free? This theater is under the Crown Prince's protection Stay your swords now Your servant Qing bows before Your Majesty Your Majesty Is this the red you had chosen? Hang it up This material was originally intended for your wedding to the Prince However it is now used in my coronation Why did you run all the way here? When I was summoned to the inner court I thought perhaps the Prince had returned I was just about to ask you Have you not heard from the Prince? He never writes to me Then how do you communicate? Through dreams I dream of him every night And we talk to each other Did you dream of him last night? Yes What did he say to you? He told me not to eat too much sweets But then he also said young girls tend to like sweet things it is not really a bad habit I also used to like sweet things Brother-in-law really knows how to please a woman How do I compare with my brother? The late Emperor was a wise and valiant man You mean to say he was not very adept at pleasing you No... When he was willing he could be exceptionally virile But he was not often willing Am I right? The tug between power and love has tormented past emperors for centuries You do not seem to be tormented Before tonight everything was simple I cared only for my kingdom But after tonight when there is you, sister-in-law what need do I have of a kingdom? You certainly know how to flatter a woman I speak from the heart Why don't you give away the throne so we can retire to the woods and live like hermits? What do you think? Sister-in-law do you want me killed? I was only teasing If it is my life that you want you can have it You can have everything that is mine Your Highness My father... How did he die? They say that while he was taking his afternoon nap he was stung by a scorpion There are scorpions in the palace? They say you can find everything in the palace Who are "they"? The people who live there Including her? She is about to be crowned Empress again By whom? Your uncle the new Emperor Wu Luan Yes You worried me to death Empress Mother You sound a little hoarse Why are you wearing such a strange mask and a battered old sword case? What has happened to you? This is a question I should be asking you What have you heard? Did I come back to grieve for my father or to congratulate my step-mother? Do not use such a cruel tone of voice against a helpless woman I have sacrificed more than enough for you and your father But my father's spirit still wanders restlessly outside the palace gate Empress Mother Look into my eyes and tell me Did my father really die from the sting of a scorpion? Wu Luan The pain in your eyes breaks my heart Don't ask so many questions Don't think too much Promise me? The best way to soothe your father's spirit is to make sure we are both safe Especially you Your Majesty Forgive me My shabby clothes have soiled the Empress' bathrobe Show me what is inside your sword case The sword of the Yue Maiden best suited to close combat I only use it for paper cutting now When your father first taught us swordplay you were always the better pupil Is this your work? These are the words of a song from Yue Can you sing it for me? It is about a Prince sailing down a stream and the rowing girl falls in love with him She sings this song So it is a love song No it is a song about loneliness You can sing to your young friend Qing She would not understand No one can really understand another person If we did we would not feel so lonely When your father allowed you to pursue the arts I was against the idea To me, a man should not be a lonely musician a product of warm hills and soft streams A proper man is a prince who rules over his kingdom with strength and courage That is only your idea of a man, Empress Mother But you have responsibilities They're bestowed upon you by the heavens above passed on to you by your ancestors expected of you by your people Hasn't my uncle assumed these responsibilities in me? He... His Majesty has commanded me to greet you here You have allowed the Prince to slip away insulting His Majesty with your incompetence What do you suggest you should do? We shall offer up our lives as penance Very good Your families will be spared We thank his gracious Majesty for his lenience Clean the bridge This palace is falling to ruin The late Emperor was a thrifty man but I am not going to suffer the way he did Pave the ceiling with flowers in gold leaf Yes, Your Majesty May I enquire should the central pillar be painted in vermilion or ink black? Vermilion is the color of blood and gold represents glory Which glorious dynasty has not been forged with blood? Minister Yin Your Majesty I envy you for having such a personable and astute son gifted in both cultural and military affairs Unlike my nephew your Crown Prince who only knows to sing and dance If Your Majesty does not like the snow leopard carving it can be replaced at once I like it When it snows this creature stays inside the cave to groom his fur When the sun comes out, it emerges shiny and sleek it knows about changing with the weather This is a clever beast May your servant suggest that a tiger would be even more appropriate According to the Book of Change a great man descends from a tiger a gentleman from a leopard Your majesty is a great man The tiger has an appropriate air of majesty Governor Pei Hong of You Province Your Majesty Why are you silent? I was thinking, perhaps this snow leopard should be gifted to Minister Yin Why is that? Because he too knows how to change with the weather Governor Pei's suggestion is excellent We shall bestow on Minister Yin this beautiful carving My deepest gratitude to Your Majesty As for a replacement... let it be a tiger then Better still, carve a flying dragon Long live Your Majesty the Empress Your servant Pei Hong bows before the Empress Dowager Governor Pei greeted the Empress as Empress Dowager Did you all hear that? Yes What does this signify? Nobody dares speak? Then let me explain The late Emperor has ascended to the heavens if the Crown Prince succeeds the throne the Empress will become the Empress Dowager Thus, I am the usurper Have we understood you correctly, Governor Pei? No wonder you are a respected scholar With three words you have rearranged the hierarchy of the court According to our ancestral customs the Emperor kneels to the Empress Dowager as a son to his mother But the Empress kneels to the Emperor as a wife to her husband Are you the Empress Dowager? Or the Empress? Should I kneel? Or should you? Please advise us Which is the correct procedure? Your humble consort kneels before Your Majesty Your Majesty Late Emperor did your spirit in heaven witness this vile exchange? General Yin Your Majesty The province of You is now yours to govern I am your servant, Your Majesty Imperial Guards Your Majesty Pei Hong is condemned to be beaten to death and his entire clan executed At once, Your Majesty What was it that you said we should carve? A flying dragon Let it be a dragon and a phoenix This is too brutal They say that Pei Hong himself invented this form of punishment for the late Emperor's use Pei Hong is dying because of me If you have any regrets I can pardon him at once No pardon I am grateful to you You don't have to be Did you help the late Emperor in this same way? No Then why are you being so generous with me? You give me what the late Emperor could never give Lord Chamberlain Present I hereby proclaim the Empress coronation will take place on the fifteenth day of this month Your Majesty the traitor Pei Hong is dead He has returned He is not a threat to you But you said that the people anticipate his succession Yin Sun What do you think you're doing? This gift from the Emperor is an insult to father It may be an insult but more than that, it is a test If your father had not been able to withstand a little humiliation from time to time he would never have reached his present rank or been trusted by three successive emperors What worries me is your little sister She is far too innocent I cannot get the eyes of the phoenix right Imagine the eyes of Empress Wan The Empress' eyes are sometimes soft and charming and sometimes frightening A phoenix with a steady gaze is what would please the Empress most The coronation is only two days away I fear this will not be ready in time From now on it is best if you stopped seeing the Prince Why? When the late Emperor was alive this match was our family's blessing Now that he is gone I fear it may be our downfall My heart will never change Make it change Learn from the Empress Who cares about losing a kingdom when in the presence of such rare beauty? You can hardly be more secure on your throne I can't ruin you anyway Qing, why don't you leave us Yes, Your Majesty In the heart of hearts, do you not trust me? The person I do not trust is my dear nephew I wonder how his rehearsal for the coronation is going Your Majesty this rehearsal adheres to the usual rules only wooden swords are employed Please examine the weapons, Your Highness Thank you We have heard that Your Highness is an expert swordsman Mere childish endeavours I have not practiced in years It is the Emperor's wish that our performance at the coronation should impress the entire court Swordplay is always impressive and performance is my specialty In that case, please begin, Your Highness I am dead You really meant to kill him We would not dare He said he is dead What does the Empress think he died of? He... mistook a deadly combat for a show Precisely And I thoroughly enjoyed the show How did you manage to lose so badly today? Did you think I lost? I hope that you will do better at my coronation Why do you wear a mask when you perform? It transports an actor to the highest state of his art Without a mask happiness, anger, sorrow and joy are simply written on his face But with a mask a great artist can convey to the audience the most complex and hidden emotions In that case, what do you see on my simple face? Six parts arrogance, three parts disquiet and one part guilt towards your late husband You are wrong It is disappointment... disappointment in you I no longer look to you to fulfill my dreams I can only pray to the heavens to have mercy and protect us both You are incapable of even the most basic play-acting Your sorrow, anger, bitterness and uncertainty are there for all to see You permit danger to follow you everywhere You think hiding behind a mask can elevate your art? The highest level is to use your own face and turn it into a mask You are here Yes This is what you asked for Do not smell it The poison is a thousand times deadlier than arsenic If I can't smell it how do I use it? You blow it into the ear with a quill What is it made of? Why is it so poisonous? It's made of Erysipelas from the Northeast ground together with black scorpions of the Northwest So nothing is more poisonous? No What can be more lethal than this? The human heart There aren't any... Any what? There aren't any scorpions in the palace I hear you brought back a song I heard it from the Empress... Trees live on mountains and branches live on trees My heart lives for your heart but you do not see me How pitiful... Who? The boat girl She loves him but he does not see her No You are talking about me You think I'm pitiful She pities me too Both of you use my suffering to lure me into your embrace Is that not the case? No Admit it No I am not her You are her I am not her You are her I am not her You are her The coronation ceremony of Her Majesty the Empress Wan will now commence The Empress' Seal May the Emperor live ten thousand times ten thousand years May the Empress live a thousand times a thousand years A performance of swordplay by the Crown Prince Wu Luan and the Imperial Guards Uncle Empress Mother I wish you both everlasting happiness My apologies for being late Please forgive me I am not going to play with you tonight Instead, I have prepared a play for your amusement Darkness has fallen My dear nephew I have been expecting you Won't you take off your mask and let me look at your face? Your are covered in sweat They are tears Come Let me wipe them away for you No Your sleeves are soaked with Erysipelas They reek of black scorpions Wu Luan, you are not acting in a play now What a talented artist I feel so gratified Quickly bow and thank His Majesty Thank you, Uncle How much you have grown in the last three years It's time to take on some serious responsibilities now Minister Yin Your Majesty What was in the dispatch sent by the Khitans? It says that to strengthen the trust between our two nations we should each send our Crown Prince to live in the other's country Have they sent their hostage yet? They have, Your Majesty But I hear he is in fact the son of a herdsman We shall not behave like the Khitans We are a great country and we live by our word We shall send a real prince No Why not? His nature is too gentle All the better It will be honed by the sandstorms of the northern deserts He is too emotional He may offend the Khitan Khan It appears you are emotional now but am I offended? Your Majesty's magnanimity is vast enough to embrace oceans But I will not tolerate a grain of sand in my eye Lord Chamberlain Yes, Your Majesty Write this down: The Crown Prince Wu Luan is henceforth appointed Ambassador to Khitan He will be escorted by the Imperial Guards and will depart promptly today By command of the Emperor Imperial Guards Your Majesty Escort the Crown Prince Yes, Your Majesty His Majesty is doing this for your own good Go... Wait Your Majesties, the Emperor and Empress Your servant Qing begs to accompany the Prince For what reason? So that when he is lonely there will be someone to sing to him Who do you think you are? Lord Chamberlain Present Take her away and give her thirty lashes of the whip Empress Mother Does it hurt? Yes My dearest daughter you have to learn to endure the pain It hurts too much but I shall listen to you and try to bear it Her Majesty the Empress approaches Does it hurt? No Look at you Tears are welling up and you still say it doesn't hurt? No, it doesn't Do you know why I punished you? Because you are jealous Qing Let her speak I like to hear the truth And why am I jealous? Because I have love And I don't? You only love yourself Nonsense Who does not love themselves? Let us take him as an example your father My father loves my brother and me more than anything in the world Really? Let us find out if this is true Guards Your Majesty Brand her face then have her exiled to the South Your merciful Majesty I always knew that the Minister was a man of wisdom Where are we? We are 350 miles past the province of You the Khitan boarder is just ahead Really? Why didn't you tell me when we passed You Province? I should have paid a visit to Yin Sun His Majesty commanded that there must be no delay Who is that? That is you The Prince The hostage In which case I shall not reach Khitan No, you will not When do you plan to kill me? Now You think you are capable of killing me? It will be either your death or ours I am Yin Sun, Governor of You My greetings to Your Highness Why did you save me? It was an order from that woman Her? Her You follow her orders? My sister is in her hands I am sorry Don't be What will you say to my uncle? I shall report that all the envoys were slaughtered by the Khitans There is not one single survivor But I am alive You will have to hide I do not want to live like a mole This is only temporary Temporary? How long is that? Three years? Five years? Or until my hair turns gray? It is still better than returning and dying needlessly I am not afraid of death But you cannot let other people die because of you Will you not be satisfied until my sister my father and our entire clan have sacrificed themselves the way these poor guards have done so that you can play at your revenge? Will you not be satisfied until rivers flow with blood and the world is submerged in turmoil? Looking at this mask what do you two see? Destiny at play Your Majesty is the true son of Heaven Nobody can oppose you But if I had not made the right move in time it would have been my blood you are staring at now, wouldn't it? You seem nervous... is the Minister not feeling well? Why are you sweating so profusely? Governor Yin Your Majesty Your father has worked too hard all his life Stay at home and keep him company My military duties keep me away from home, Your Majesty Your military duties? Without you, the sky is hardly going to fall down Your Majesty's kindness has moved your servant to tears We are most grateful for Your Majesty's consideration I have never liked masks You may leave Yes, Your Majesty Lord Chamberlain Present We shall give a banquet for the entire court The day after tomorrow is an auspicious day for feasting That would be too late make it tomorrow night Tomorrow is not auspicious for receiving guests I will not bow to superstition Write this down: Tomorrow at midnight all courtiers are invited to a royal banquet to be given in the hall of gold Yes, Your Majesty Anyone who fails to attend will be executed Since the departure of the Crown Prince your sister has not touched a single grain of rice Then let me tell her that he is still alive No Give this to her Drifting down the river Qian What auspicious day is this? Dreaming beside my Prince Brother I dreamt of him again last night He was dancing somewhere white as snow There were a lot of people He even invited me to join him Little sister stop fooling yourself You are not in his heart I know But I promised I would wait for him always You are in your brother's heart I will not let anybody harm you Is there anything more poisonous than this? Yes What? The human heart Well said Why didn't the Prince take it with him on his last visit? He was not ruthless enough This is your payment Arsenic? There is not much but it should be enough for one His Majesty the Emperor approaches We have not played polo for a while Let us have a big match, you and I Your Majesty is throwing a banquet tonight Is there enough time to play? It is still early I have a headache Lord Chamberlain Present Send for the Imperial Physician at once Yes, Your Majesty There is no need I just need to rest for a while Let me Your Majesty Don't move Look at you An Empress Mother to a nation And you still kick off your blankets when you sleep Did you catch cold last night? Your Majesty How long have we been together? Why do you ask? Including today it would be one hundred days exactly You have been counting But to me it feels like less than a single day One hundred days, but I have never surrendered all of myself before Even if you are a piece of ice you will eventually melt in my mouth What if the ice turns into fire? A globe of fire in your mouth Then I shall swallow it and it will warm my heart Do it now Swallow it now What did she say? The Empress said that her mind was made up the moment the Prince was sent away as hostage The Emperor is fickle and suspicious She may be his favorite now but sooner or later he will turn his attention elsewhere Rather than wait to be discarded she has decided to take the risk and strike first She wants to rule herself? Exactly Once she has succeeded she intends to denounce the Emperor as a fratricide and usurper She will say that she is carrying out heavenly justice on behalf of the late Emperor She wants us to rally and support her claim to the throne This woman Ah, this woman Father whose side should we take? We have no choice, she has planned everything perfectly First, your sister is in her hands Secondly, when she asked you to save the Prince it was not for personal reasons alone It was to turn us into her accomplices so that we have nowhere to stand except by her side She knows that we have no option now If this woman succeeds we must denounce her straight away as a traitor and an assassin The person who deserves to ascend the throne is not her but you Father Are you afraid? No If Heaven bestows this gift upon me to refuse would be to disobey the gods Ling prepare the carriage To the Minister of Law Minister Yin and his son, Yin Sun are guilty of the following crimes: Deceit of the Emperor and tyranny over the court misuse of power and collusion of the enemy They will be stripped of their titles and exiled to the South All their property will be confiscated and deposited in the national reserve By command of the Emperor General Yin General Yin My Lord Chamberlain Present I wish to say a few words Yes, Your Majesty Pour the wine Yes, Your Majesty the Empress Our ancestors used to roam the palace with candles by night but our most gracious Emperor throws brilliant banquets for his courtiers His hospitality surpasses all who came before him It is my privilege to thank His Majesty with this toast Also tonight I am going to take Your Majesty's life Excellent Esteemed courtiers Let us drink together To His Majesty Your servant Qing and my dancers beg permission to entertain Your Majesties with a performance Minister Yin Your Majesty Did you organize this surprise for me? Your Majesty this is Qing's own idea My father knows nothing about it Good What have you prepared for us? A song from Yue This sounds familiar It was the Crown Prince's favorite song To commemorate him I want him to know that even if the whole world abandons him I shall never do so and my love for him will never die This is very touching Grant her some wine Yes, Your Majesty Take my cup let me join you in remembering the departed spirit of my dear nephew Such an honor is too great for Wu Luan Let us fetch another cup Lord Chamberlain Present There is no need Thank you, My Lord But I do not know how to drink You must not refuse His Majesty's gracious gift Then I shall have a little sip Sister What blessed night is this? Drifting down the river Qian What auspicious day is this? Dreaming beside my Prince Too bashful to stare A secret I cannot share My heart fills with longing to know you, dear Prince Trees live on mountains and branches live on trees My heart lives for your heart but you do not see me You do not see me Qing Wu Luan It's me It's me The moment the song started I could feel you near me My dearest Qing Your Highness do you still feel lonely? With you I shall never be lonely again Your brother loves you No one can harm you You poisoned the wine? Yes You wanted me to die? Yes And all along I thought I was warming your heart It has been heated to the point of burning Lord Chamberlain Present Carry out this edict: Qing is to be given a lavish state burial Minister Yin What are you waiting for? You... venomous woman Where are the Imperial Guards? Imperial Guards Protect the Emperor Anyone who stands in my way will perish This man murdered my father like a coward This is a matter between the two of us It is nobody else's concern I don't want to kill the innocent Out of my way Such majestic demeanor as befits a nephew of mine I knew that if you were alive this day would come sooner or later And here you are Was it the desire for revenge that hauled you out of the valley of death? Or was it your melancholy that touched the hearts of women so that their tenderness wove a web of protection around you? Or perhaps a million calculations cannot compare with one pure heart? Or maybe it is you my brother who has been protecting your son all along so that he can spill my blood and restore your honor? If this is what you want Brother then let me appease you tonight You offered me a toast How can I refuse? The Emperor is dead Your Majesty Your Majesty Do with me what you will Please do not lay this sinful title on me Would killing you bring Qing back to life? The blade is poisoned Wu Luan It is nothing You are going to be fine He was lying There is no poison The blade is not poisoned Wu Luan Imperial Physician Lord Chamberlain Ling, where are you? Wu Luan Where is everybody? Little Wan... Little Wan... Little Wan is here... Your Little Wan is here Look at me, look at me Your Little Wan is here... Little Wan is here It is so good to be able to die You cannot die You must not die Wu Luan May your majesty live ten thousand times ten thousand years Long live Long live Long live Your Majesty Minister Yin conspired to usurp the Throne By law, he should be executed But considering his service to three successive emperors he will only be exiled to the far North and never to return By command of the Empress Little Wan When was it that I started to forget my name? Perhaps it was the day your father married me You left and nobody used my name anymore Gradually even I forgot what it was Then your uncle married me and again I was called the Empress But from now on nobody will call me Empress anymore Instead, they will call me Her Majesty, the Emperor Do you know why I like this particular red? Because it is the color of the flame of desire Yes desire How many lives have been consumed by this flame? Only I shall rise out of it like a phoenix The breathless whisper of a single verse And loneliness blossoms within my heart The shimmer of a single dream And my world is undone The memory of a single tenderness And the sting of love reignites my wounds In the moment when a single tear falls All hatred becomes a distant blur I can love you with all that I am But even this cannot return you to me From now on I will live as a shadow Forever in the past... Forever in the past...
