 

                        Shit! How did it happen? When did it happen? Preeti! Last night I saw a nightmare, I saw that.... I will be right back. Anybody here? your old dehli took your life, and now you are dying, your game is over now. There is no such difference between love and bullet. They both came out to attack on your chest. you didn't understand. Come on! Where are you going? Listen! Mr. Mehta! Why he is shouting this morning? If you will take milk then buffalo will shout, He is outside. Call him here, No! he is hunged up. What are you doing? Have you gone mad? What are you doing? I am giving him fresh air. It's my style, what do you think? Hold him tight. Don't be crazy, Get me up! If I will fall down then I won't spare anyone of you. If I will fall down then I won't spare... When you will die then you will see. Now you hunged up then tell me will you work for me. No! Do you know from which floor you're gonna fall? It's my house why you are telling me that from which floor I'll fall down, Get me up! Release him little bit. you won't work for me, then tell me where did you keep the contract? In my bedroom. What? On my balcony. What are you doing? Let him hung up for a while. When woman becomes witch, he took man's life. What are you doin? Jump down we will catch you, you are practising for catches here. Come out! How do I? When I was falling down I missed that guy who jumped down with fire in fare. There are many kinds of fire in life. Which one was mine? For love or sex. Sex? No! I am sure it's love. But I couldn't tell her. Life has it's own dilemma, What did you say? I didn't say anything. He is in jail from 2 years. and his younger woman is having fun with other men, Not on face. I was about to miss all of them, But most of them I would miss her, She came to my dreams every night. When I woke my pain still remains, If she will elope with someone else. Chandu! I am leaving this line, I am going home, Tomorrow my wife will give me oil message. and my son will be playing. And your wife made hot daal for you, I want my share. What share? What money I make for you I need my share from that money, What money you make for me? Place was mine, I brought you business. What kind of your share? your company was having loss, I have brought it from 5 crore to 2500 crores. As per contract my share is 10 percent, Give me my share then I will go home, Fine! Take care of him, Here is your contract, Whenever you want to do your job, Come to office, I have another copy, you son of a bitch, Fine! Now you do your business, I won't come to you, When you will caught then you will know my importance, And you won't betray with them, From those people I brought 5 and 10 Rupees from their houses, on your chit fund account, Now when you have to pay me, then you want keep their money to show you're a defaulter. It's not your language, It's the language of that bitch, you always dancing in her ghaghra. It's her language and she is putting this insect in his mouth, Many people trusted on me, First time when I saw her she didn't smile. those days who could smile on me, What was that day? Mehta's 3 crore was remaining on his partner and I have to recover it, Roger opened a restaurant in Goa. He must be failed. but his failure become my success. Don't come over here, I don't have money, your big resort is running on credit. I heard you have a partner, Who is your partner? That day my life gone change, I am still fixing it, I have to go jail. Why would I go to jail? you are pretty it doesn't mean that you can't make a mistake. you have signed the papers. What he is done? 30 percent on gambling, 30 percent on fucking, 30 percent old loans and he gave 8 percent in church, My parents left only one thing for me and it's gone. This is good. I am not gonna escape anywhere, you didn't need to come here, Our company have other men for those people who tried to escape, I have come for you, It's a power of attorney written by Roger, And it's written that he is responisble for everything, And you gave your property for loan, But Roger never written that, I have written it, Then signatures? He will sign them now, What do you mean? you get his thumb stamp I will get his signature. He was like my brother, We have no other choice. What happen? Where is stamp pad? Just try to cry. It's done, Our life story is same, My father died to humiliate ministers. Preeti's father died with reading news papers. And they didn't left penny for us, I have become C.A. She had a good voice so she become a singer. And then this Roger's incident occured. She came to dehli. She would have some faith on me, Other is history, yes Mehta! Don't ruin your friendship for a girl. Find another one, I am getting married and I will send you invitation, Don't come, Fine! Nothing! I am in a meeting, Shall we talk later? Who was he? you are taking my interview, I just want to know about you, What? Can I think forward? About what? About you and me. Then what did you decide? Are you crazy? you have parked your car in the middle of street. What does it mean when you got hit from front and back, that day I found out, Stop giving him meal. Get up! He is ''BARE''. My boss. The most dangerous gangster of Dehli. He took all the tenders. Until he had support of Verma, He was very dangerous. Will you listen to me or not? But nobody know when ministers take their support back. One day government has changed Verma changed his party and become a home minister, But to keep relationship with people like ''BADE'' become a problem, But Verma didn't left any option, He turned jail into hell for BADE. I am giving you one chance, If you can do something for me, Those shits are very dirty get them clean, Sattu! come here. When he is not watching you are still pushing me, I thought he would check by chance, Did you get hert? This loyal man ruins everyone, Get him bandage, And you will clean the shit, Don't bother Bhai Sahab. May I leave? you can go. Take care. My time is bad, They made me dog. Tell me if you have some job, I can give my life for you, No! you go... I left you for your father. But I can't leave your gang like this. Before that I have to made a call from BARE. CHOTE! Bade's step brother. He thinks himself a fashion designer. He put his own man's head in boiled water. What are you doing? you must be having message from girls. Are you worried about me? Get me out of here. Did I told you to mess with Verma, you would let him take your money, They would put that money is my ass. you would have enjoy with that money. Listen! Chorasia has come to meet me. He is getting bail tomorrow and he will get me release from here. I will kill that Verma, I will kidnap his daughter. then he will bring his car to get me out. Now do me a favour don't bother him for money. Send him money on time, I am in bad condition, I will kill all of them. He is Kuldip. He is leaving this business. And I have permitted him so don't say anything to him, If Chowrasia will need then he will use him otherwise not. Brother! why did you allow Kuldip to leave the gang. He doesn't have another plan. BADE didn't find out what we gonna do with him, And he is cooking something else with Kuldip. Send our bald guy. He will handle it. May I? I said yes. Did you make a call for Mumbai? I will try again. you have done it correct. Woman's nature is kind of that, She is also the same, you trusted on her and she betray you. I already told you. Try to understand her type. you have .92 gun. you also have a silencer. It's loaded? If you will say anything about her, then I will make a holes of 1.5 inches. I don't know where I will make holes but I will must make. you will say sorry when I will take your money, you tell me about A.M. Chand's deal. Mota is the first party of A.M. Chand. A.M. Chand will get 4 percent for his respect. we will make him dance later. I made 5 crore for him in a minute. you are such a genius. you think I am your employee. I told you once and you are still holding it's tail. Put some money in my account, How much you want? 5 million. Fine! you came to me in childhood. Brother! he beated me, you have grown up in Tihar Jail. you are really leaving this business. your wife only smile on her wedding day, Before wedding night. Now she is still crying from that day. Tell me what will you do now? How would you earn money? Do you know some other business? you are so grown up... Mom! papa is here. What? Shanti! My wife... She is always angry. Shanti! Stop! Drive! Many people never forget their principles. Those days we are shining in gangster business. In BADE's time no payment on time start beating that person, that time we got Bade's phone call. We have to recover money from Mital. We went out for job, For taking shortcut we entered in wrong house. We got right thing on wrong place. Kuldip is a munciple contractor, Why water won't come? Break his legs, He is fooling me around. you stay away from me, What will you do? He took kiss and money too. Are you crazy? I left evertthing, you will be tired, What are you doing? Kill him here. Look at him carefully, Three days... then I am going and I don't wanna see your face again, you will get marry again, I will.. I will do anything, Why do you care? you will do that same thing again. you will go to jail again, One day somebody will come to kill you and he will get shot. Do you have something? Will you take us somewhere? Kuldip was in shocked there... And I was sinking with Mehta to come out from my shock. in his heaven, Here sometimes right people encouraged you, and sometimes wrong people pressed on wrong places. So Mehta! what's up? I am fine, Just leave my balls. It will take time to adjust the money. Look! I have no problem but papa was getting angry. you are feeling pain, Tell Mr. Verma that I will pay till 10. Because of these people Mehta wanted to leave this business. but I didn't know... that same Minister's son Ankush will help me in future. you carry on. Kuldip is such a great gangster and my wife has gone with some other man, and I didn't say anything, My heart beat is stopped. She will take my son, How would I live without them? I will burn this dehli city. Get me some job, I have to earn some money, I will go crazy. Stop crying. I have a solution to make your life happier. Tell me! Forget your wife. you will have to sacrifice for your future. Do you know Chowrasia? He took kidnapping contracts, Now what happen to you? I have a heart problem, you have gas, do some yoga. His gas is also leaking, I will get you his kidnapping contract. you have waisted your entire life, Make your last move. When you will put diamond neklace in your wife's neck. then she will forgive your all sins. Just listen to me, your job will be done and... I will get some money for my retirement, Carry on! you are looking good. Tell me what are you doing? I have gas. I have a cure and you will get relief in 30 seconds. Chorasia is dead. But I have appeased Kuldip. He will do our job. How did it happen? That person should be sorrow for other's dead, who shouldn't have to die ever. your job is done, Kuldip shouldn't be dead. What did you say? Bade gave his job to Kuldip. that's good. Chowrasia is dead now Kuldip will also die. and Bade will be rotted in jail. What so good with that? Who will get the bank account number from Bade. He had put his entire money in swiss bank account. Plan changed, Stop your bald guy, Kuldip shouldn't be dead. Drive faster, Now the way is empty, I am reaching there, I will stop him, Kuldip shoudn't die. Stop him anyway. He is in another building, Until I will reach there he would have killed him, Shoot him if you need, He is my brother in law. Tell me the price 5 lac, 10 lac. What happen in 10 lac. I will give you 20 lac. It's Bade's phone call. Why do you lie to me? I want to send him medicine, How many times you will lie me, you are a dog. Get out from here, Why did you call Shanti at home? you should have call on my mobile. Jailer has planned to kill me, Get me out of here immediately. Verma and Bade have their personal enmity, Kidnap the girl but don't let happen anything to her, Did you talk to him or you just killed him, He looks like an informer? How does informer looks like? He looks the like him, you did well. you all are crazy. She is cabinet minister Verma's daughter Anjali. and he is faincee Sham Singhania. Love has a problem, If one get doom. then other will must get doomed. I have seen it, just tell me we have to do something with them, Marriage in our area and we will must get dowry. In any relation time has come to get away, Otherwise you will get trapped. But why I was sitting over there, Why I wanted to tell Shaam that leave Preeti. Don't put her in trouble. And how much he was about to put her in trouble, I didn't had any idea about that, It's all yours. What do you think? your dad's... and that day, I was praising of my house, It's such a palace. I want to talk to you, We will talk, But I underestimated Preeti. She knew something about Shaam, And today she wanted to solve that matter, Nothing is possible between us, Why it's not possible? When you are gonna leave me? Why would I leave you? I sing in hotels. Why would you live with a girl like me? Because I want to live, And what about Anjali? That Minister Verma's daughter... your marriage is fixed with her, I have already told her, And I think she is on doorstep. And I think if you will be hide in bathroom that will be fine. Anjali! where are you going? Just listen to me, Where is she? Who? Please don't do this to your self. Anjali, it's not possible. you don't know who am I? How could she be, who he brought together that would be our girl. She came out emotionally from bathroom, another cried outside. and the reason was Shaam, Why did I get trapped? you called uncle, dad got stroke we are taking him to hospital. And story begins from here. They are gone, They were talking about hospital. I will wait outside, What are you doing? I am not doing anything, I just met her, What do you think? you want to marry with her, Why you are not meeting with Anjali from one month, That arrogant girl wants me to sign a bond before marriage. so we couldn't take advantage of her father's position, Do we have need to take advantage of her father's position, If you want to know the truth... yes we have.... Don't know who they brought this time, What's the matter? I lost my way, Tell me where is the main road? Prepare the informers, We have all arrangements. It's our village nothing would happen here. He losted his way, He is leaving, Girl is wrong, Don't tell this matter to Chote... Otherwise we will lost our money, Leave her, where she will go, she is our guest. Where is Shaam? Who are you people? What's your problem? We got you here... Now we won't tell you our names, We have some job for your father in law. We are helpless. I don't understand anything, We worked hard on you, There must be some reason. Do you know who am I? We know you are rich person that's why we have a special job, you all will die. you can also die. Make a phone call to your Anjali, and tell her to let us talk to her father. Give me the number. Use your phone, Why she is not picking up? She might be sleeping, Why she is not picking up the phone, I hope she is not dead, What to do? kill them and bury them, you want to die, No! There is a way. I will go to Anjali. She will go there first then she will go to police. in that case we all will die. She is not picking up the phone so I will go and inform her, Very good, Don't hear her, she is intelligent and we all are fools here. But you don't need me, If I will escape then... he is here... you will get iron medal for escape. Tell me, you have brought me blind folded here. Take me blind folded. If anything will go wrong then you will die, And if everything will be fine then will you let him go. What is your relationship with him, She is his lover. Chote's phone call. What happen? It will be done, Don't take time, I am not making a burger. I am making biryani it takes time, Whatever is happeningjust inform the Chote. Don't think about it. Shoot in the middle of forhead, We have an order, We must have to kill him, I will drop you home, Forgive me, This phone is able to use, All phones are working, If we won't teach you then how would you learn, Stay with Ma'am and use this phone, If she speaks anything in english then shoot her. When she make you a phone call then shoot the Shaam, Tell Anjali that her fiancee don't have enough time, Let us talk to Minister soon, Few people have great luck, They got two babes. It's been so long that I didn't see any girl. Speak louder. Open her blind folded near harvest. I am coming, you are a princess, you will sit behind, If you will talk rubbish then I will cut your throat. Nobody will know it. your boss will know it, Are you seeing your childs act? Is it the way to beat someone up. As an priciple I can't keep this kid in my school Its allright but did he beat him? What's so funny in it? Isn't it? Say sorry to her.. Why did you beaten him up? Dont know father..I just gets furiuos a second If you gets furious so what? My brain nerves starts to boost up. Then I feels to punch someone Where did to learnt it? It happens automatically Then? Then I just starts fighting.. With your father's money? you're insulting my father just a moment you were with last night. at his house.. How dare you come here? Why did you come to me? Go to his father... go to police. Give me only one reason Because They'll kill him Any problem my daughter.? HEy bro. I want to meet big brother. I've joined the police for serve you Do something..I want to meet him right now Can't you see me smiling laughing. I'd my informers call what he's saying? He's just making me release so he can take all accounts detail. After that.... he'll get me killed.. His mothers.. He's my brother.. his mother is mine too He got spoiled.. I'll fix him Keep it.. I'll give you address and keys later Get me outta here anyhow. What's the matter? feeling scared? What're you doing here? they ain't not here, my men handle them where are you? where are you? Dont shout.. If I'll make call once he'll get beheaded I had find you. I had find you when I came out but you were not there what'd i do. Minister warma has called me to his house you're very smart.. May I go or not? Ok go. But pick up my call when I call you When you're unable to talk so tell me..Darling I'm busy How will you say it? I'm in big trouble i know Infact I'm following you since last night. Actually from resort.. so why did you not meet me in resort than? I had phoned you but you said you're in meeting But you forgot to tell me with who? What're you seeing like that? So how should I see and do? Today My partner hung me upside down and swelled me money So I thought to change my track, so I went to a girl to I do love And I seen when reach there. Why did you not tell me anything before. Was it needy to tell you that. What do you think I just hanging out with you till long time I mean, you've done something by which I feel something. Which you didn't feel that you think you didn't feel. Must have done something. I know where are they... I take police to there. you won't do something like that. They'll kill me.. whenever you feel that you're in danger so where you reached? no... I didn't made Mehta is very important person and have to obey the boss. If he've no time so. what you mean? Dont go to that small one when getting out the big one why He'll become the head line of paper When getting big one the small one will kill you When the big one will be successfull to escape.. and his groups men will get killed. why're you scaring me. The dog bite me so I'm telling you We'll take to big one. We'll get the account number by him then will pump him you told me to get a bingo dont you trust me? I heared that you both have deep relationship Can we both talk in private My son.. he's an idiot. But it deosn't mean that his and angalis relation will break so easily He's gonna dump her He'll marry with angeli We'll talk when everthing will be fine. How many calls are for this girl why ? what happend? other one is calling who's call it is? you want him to die.. i dont want him to die. I just want him to go away from pretty's life. if he'll have to die for it so its okay There's a limit of everthing what're you doing for it Suddenly I think.. That aran can be used to help pretty dont think.. but it may possible will you just talk? just talk How are you? who's speaking? whatever you want me to consider. Are you fond of seeing english movies. What's in the be so angry I got your son-in-law. what do you want me to do? you'll release someone from jail day after tomorrow, after that we'll release your son-in-law Are you gone mad To whome I've to release. its not needy to know it for you. when you transfer the prisoners.. To other jail so we'll get him out in the way. I'm minister...not a land lord.. people like you have lots of land you're not releasesing it openly,just say that an prisoner escaped while transfering you'll die like a dog Law and.... shut up your son-in-law will die like a dog Think again.. so give me your henceman number. I'll call you after 2 hours. Why dont you do something. what's your possesion problem What do you think? What is my possesion I'm the indebt of government. Everthing is morgaged this an castle. Did you meet that goons.. no sir I just gets their phone call If you get their call again, so tell him that their demands can't be fulfill i've talked everwhere. now what? sham's father is talking to minister. nothing yet have information you come back ! why? shouldn't i meet with sham's father? No..Meet him.. there's no worry about meeting but come back in a hour behind the old tomb Can't you do just a little work? what I do if minister is not picking up the call dont he like his daughter. I can't hear you where? where is? There's nothing. who's she? I makes it.. this is the company,earlier they gives me 3 rupee and now 7 in packing of 250gsm I'm saying.. there's nothing. dont cry since I've got married? so how many days you lived with me? How many days ? tell me? In out in out.. how can I take care of house? what do I do? I do all work alone. I won't go again she's taking him along to london what're you saying? Mannu brother is getting me a job in hotel I'll get 800 pound in a month will you go to london/ she've come What we do? there's a hole in throut The person is weird but he talks streight forward. What I got when doing love. I should have had take her streight to bedroom Did I done anything like that? I think you should tell to sham that he call to angeli And tell her that I made a mistake and ask for forgiveness I want to come back And I'm coming back It might be possible that he forgives him and her father convinced Its about life will you help me? means? I'll call you will you be able to call me from there? I'll call,,I'll tell them... what? anything. I'll tell anyhow that I need your help means you're saying that If I dont get your call in 24 hours so what do I do? Give me 24 hours. dont go.. understand. To whome you made a call? To whome you went to meet? Am I fool? I didn't call anyone. I'll finish you right now to whome you made a call? to no one. I'll finish the chapter today pick up the call I can't find tony Lets move... had the kuldeeps call,get outta here out.. Do you think I'm a government officer, that you were giving me bribe/ What do I do more... touch your feet? or beg forgiveness? what i do? you're the wise.. you make them understand. where's tony... tony has left tenced I told you.. what're you acting here? please leave me. I'm the son of singhaniya. tell me who's son you are? Whatever I was going to do, I shouldn't have to do Next generation will remember, there're few fools like me. but what I do? I was helpless by my nature. I wan the all account details of the verma's son And his too..he've the money of brokery of gun in his account Give me the full detail of his account in which mess are you in? I'll transfer the brokery money in the account of verma's son Are you gone mad? Verma's creat a problem if press will come to know. then he'll do what I want him to do why're you doing this Will you not reform? The house I showed you, so I'm selling it I want money immediately.. Ok..sale out the car. What's your matter if I'm going to london what's going on? Just thinking. what? To play your band.. you need a band master like me to do it The sophie has come.. lets play the band together I'm working you do your work.. I gotta go,I also have to do work I need some numbers.. open the cabin My friend.. take this key. take whatever you want. what do you think? about what? about your son-in-law I told you nothing can be happen Do one thing.. check your son's bank account It has been transaction of many crores.. Rm, who's arm dealer.,you got the money from him, you son has invested on fake company's name on stock market. Its list will be convey to dra. and 3rd. The company of your son his all share will be dump till morning in market. what do you want? fullfill the demand of girl.. tell her that her work has started call her now what kind of revenge are you taking by me? from yourself.. and family what're you hiding from me? you calm down.. listen, nothing has happend. let me check.. there's some confusion I'll explain to you everthing. you should have tell me atleast.. you're going to leave everthing like this are you selling out everthing of yours. why how did you get my password? its very easy you've fixed an camera to your door So I tilt that camera to your seat. you sat and typed your password I'm not the poet. Can I tell you something. Disappear from this country No one will spare you alive there's a ticket under your table your wife is in asylum.. so let her stay there. your kids are in switzerland.. go there..your money has tranfer there There's a few days problem.. you'll get your money back why you did it? you made a mistake arun, ministers men are finding your everwhere. you leave the delhi.. I've arranged everthing. ITs the ministers call.. hey pretty.. you work is done.you'll receive verma's phone I'm leaving the city forever If I'll live in city so verma's men will kill me. Minister verma convinced you park the car on the way behind the rock. move forward... did kuldeep got out? he's out long time ago behind the rock It was my younger brothers call Tell me one thing. If you'll deal in alone with me. So you'll get more money Minister verma's deal is not going to be done I'm not his son-in-law. speak Now release balwand in those 22 prisoners. and get out of here. we ain't fool will wander with 22 prisoners you get sham out. Do you think I'm fool to take him with me you release balwand..and get out. sham will reach to home. What do you want? ohhh little.. what happend to you? that's what you do work? you got cutted off? We thinks ten times to get cut the hair and beard.. Show me is it real or fake? what're you doing it? Got insulted.. but you've to die. you think everthing.. If I give you the sake of the father so? to whome you killed And mother.. she's step.. Do you think you'll get all money after killing me? I got it.. what? I got your nigeria person he telled me everthing everthing. so telled you all money yes all money the swiss banks account was.. some 900 crore, did he told you? 732 crore, the china's elctronics. did he tell you that where is all that money and that ministers 150 crores did tell you that? which? its just. you're not so beloved. you all stay here becarefully give me the phone where is that much money? I telled everything to kuldeep Ask someone where is hospital by the way..you killed his father. We've to nil the credit. the small one killed my father? will i lie? If you'll not kill him.. so he'll come to kill you forsake of money and that time you'll be helpless kill him I given you the slip and keys in the jail... it contains the all details of south africa's all accounts enjoy yourself son its a verma's order to surround everywhere the small one spoiled the game what will you do my brother? currently we've to get outta here and where from will we arrange for money ITs good to trust on big brother but kuldeep made a mistake to believe on sardeep Because big brother might be have some reasons if you want to kill your friend so remoe all thoughts from heart. sing a song and pull the trigger did you seen? your lover was trying to escape what deal he was talking about? And what was saying ? we'll all die? you'll die..if you'll leave us.. so you can be safe. Big brother's money is in foreign call to father. what he's saying? what? she can't hear. kuldeep is saying to sham. that sham make a call to his father.. And bring 15 core here. otherwise you both gone. now you heared it? I'll call him she's saying something I'm calling to mr.singhaniya I know him its his father.. and you'll call I met him at the minister verma's house I'm stuck in big trouble I can swear to father that I never wanted to go But who knows.. The wind came. The car drives itself. My hands started to stire the stering. What the duck... you dont looks the father of sham. when did you got married? what does it matter Big people keeps a man for every work. where's the money? yes, I arranged the money Just let me talk with girl for 2 minutes Haven't money.,so why this girl phone him to call him here I've the money.. he got nothing. I've arranged.. just let me talk with her 2 minute you made a mistake..you should bring the money we'd leave her you should talk like that when you got everthing you're not playing with ace but two. let me talk with her.. hit the girl..I'll handle him can't you understand? Are you gone mad... therefore you're stuck here. Lets shoot me and I shoot you. where're you from? 50 crore baad. where is the money? money? have'nt money you told me.. bring money What I said... I said I'm coming. So I've come be seated there. you've money already Its in your account since 1 and half year in my account? you might be remember that after the death of roger.. I made out the power of atorney sign by you So I took some more powers in that power of atorney you had house which was morgaged by roger.. so I releas it then I sale out it. but I invested that money With client of mehta.. So i bought out the little land by the return of the money Near the airpor,when was going to declare the airport is going to built. at time I sold out it.. are in your account. you go and with draw that money and be happy what's this this the power of atorney, which you named me now its yours now. what's this.. can't talk streight I did as it was possible Send someone with girl.. take the money.. and leave the ram till I'll not get money.. you'll stay here. 15 crore is much money. can't be with draw from bank therefore I sent pretty to my marwari friend. Then..the night spent as usually the sun raised. then it was something new. She feels about me first time. to whome are you talking to yes kuldeep the money has been arranged let him go you bring the money first.. your sham is ok I'm not talking about sham The person who was sent by herf father, leave him Just one tell me who's your akin stop rubbish first leave him... or you won't get the mone will you decide it. Should I say to marwari? or call the police here? may I make arrest to guddu? When she said to kuldeep to release me. then she maybe wanting to pay the indebt. But she wasn't know that these bastard without telling kuldeep Were intended to escape after dumping me.. its a call for you I realize that the life is not under my control. But not to kuldeep Still he was planning to escape from mumbai was easy to him One side prety was getting money for him otherside shadbir was bringing her kids.. easily.. Some another way.. tis longjourney how'd he know tht he's going to be dump the song is wrong according the situation Look..I'm police have to work according to procedure the younger brother given me 1 core Now have to give him little situation but younger bro There's mess in the situation you come along me you come along. How you got this good work Wat'll I do with so much money you're the one to whome I trust now what kind of money is now? Brother given me the account nuner before dying. Tto swelling the others money.. it was natural in kuldeep's nature but that day somethng saved him that day First time he thought to shre ashrf in life First time he be fullfill the friendship police is working always for oposition That man given me 5 cores Now what'd I have to do no you dont force your brain dont worry.. I've setting of polie man Five bullets had shot 4 shot on aim Ane one girl hided what happend? how it done what people will say if they hear when it happend I saw an nightmare last night. I'll be back is there anyone else? mehta was wrong. because some bullets take life and some saves life its looks weird.. will something happen? nothing nothing should be happen. finally the wind way was moving look at me Look at me you see to sham Or my death will be useless nothing happend to you i'm with you nab my hand I feeling I'm sinking you're with me And finally she said what I wanted to hear the game gets over slowly The one bullet story is remaining She runs when guddu fell down Finally that life was giving me support its all because of you what do you think you are? you shamless What'd i have to do? Now there was only problem of kuldeep And it was still intact And to solve it.. it was only way what gain? you'll do same. no Will you do business of pickle after leaving your business I do And that money about sadbir was telling..will you leave it yes. how much money was? 2.5 crore ok take it take the money
