 

                        "No, can't move this week. Got lots of work" Breakfast is ready. - I'll see Ma first "Life's strange, no?" "We had nothing, yet we had everything. Because I had you" Now I got everything and all I have is nothing... Because you're no more Guess why I'm telling you all this? You left me when I was six "20 years after, you look just the same" "And look Ma, how I've changed" "Remember my birthday? Say, what gift will you give me this year" "Every year, you sent me gifts... gifts from God. And this year?" Will you? Won't you? Headlines. The new foreign policy and a breakthrough in computer technology No news? - The new cricket team London-based Rajesh Purushottam Mittal is businessman of the year Indians and people of Indian origin all over the world take pride... in the fact that an Indian has bagged England's most prestigious award Rajesh Mittal will be presented the award on the 20th of this month Ma... do you see? Papa is alive And you thought he never came back because of whatever befell him He was only too busy doing whatever and it has reaped a reward for him "And I kept wondering why I'm alive? What for? And nice of God, no...?" He denied me my mother's love and now He gives me a father "You were no widow, I was no orphan so I'm going to London, right away" "And you got to come along. Else, how will he recognize me?" He doesn't even know that he has a son Shekhar... - You're on the first flight to London Why are you staring? Are you seeing me for the first time? Me...? "Cut the crap. Why not even a phone, a fax for so long? Not done, friend" Lady... - Are we getting formal? "All of a sudden, after all the jokes we shared, am I a stranger? My bag" "If you're suffering from amnesia, why not see a good doctor?" "How could I forget you, my first love? Are first loves forgettable?" "Had you not turned up, I'd be so upset that I'd return to Bombay" Oh am I glad to see you! I can't tell you in as many words So let my lips speak "Ma told me all about you, she showed me your photo" "So I know who you are, my love and don't we go back a long time?" "No fax, no Xerox, no telex, no floppies" "I'm just my Papa's carbon copy" Is this any time to turn up? - What...? Show me your invitation "By the way, who are you? - Maybe you got amnesia" Why not see a doctor? - You fancy gate-crashing? You fancy someone lugging your luggage? - So... quits? "What kind of a name is Sony? - No, I'm Sonia" I'm elated. But the credit goes to my father Purushottam Mittal I followed the path he showed me and here I am "This award is the outcome of his principles, the upbringing he gave me" "Daddy, come up on stage" Daddy... grandfather...? Fortunate is a man who sees his son overtake him up the ladders of success "A fortunate father, I am and I'm proud of my son Rajesh" "More than my son, I'm proud that an Indian who has won this award" A woman is behind my success. At my every step what inspired me... "was her love, her companionship... none other than my wife Smita Mittal" I'm very fortunate to have Smita for my wife I too am most fortunate to have him for my husband "Last but not the least, the apples of my eyes..." "my daughter Rinke and my son, Bunty. Join me, my children" God save us from the evil eye You loved him till your last breath? But he forgot you long ago "Now he loves someone else. To you, he was no husband" "To me, he was no father" He's someone else's father. He's someone else's husband "Thanks, brother. - Why thank a brother?" "Come, let's have coffee" You're his son. He will be glad to see you. He's your father He can't be a bad man. - How can you be sure? You don't even know him. - But one thing I know Your father is an Indian. An Indian never betrays his family "We might not be so wealthy, but at heart, we're rich" "Come on, I'll tell you a story" A lone star... shines... shows the way The shining star... is my Hindustan From East to West... travels the light "India holds her own even in London" "From afar, we traveled to this alien land..." "carrying a message from our homelands" Here riches galore... but be true to love "That's the message which has stirred this alien land" "India holds her own even in London" "We're from the land where love lives in hearts" "Ties of love are never broken, relationships are never broken" "Then why did I think this is an alien land?" Your words give me courage "What made you think this is an alien land?" "But I'm happy if I've given you courage" Life is tied to relationships My land has touched my life Yours will become a legend "India holds her own even in London" From East to West... travels the light "India holds her own even in London" Do I look British? Talk to a Hindustani in Hindustani I'll use Punjabi. Where to? - What's up there? Mr. Mittal's residence. - So I must be going to see him As if you own that mansion? - You could say so Indeed? You got an appointment? - No Then you can't see him. - It's urgent. I'm related to him Ever since he won the award... every Indian is into the business of getting related to him. Scoot Step aside. - Who's that? "Some relative! You don't know who Mr. Mittal is? Hey, where to?" The problem about being rich are the relations you spawn Never will I buy a mansion. I'd rather stay a gatekeeper "Sir, I'm from India. I've come to see you" "Like this...? Who are you? - Sir, I'm Raju and I'm from India" So...? I'm Meghna Saxena's son Meghna Saxena...? - Yes sir So you're Meghna's son? - Yes What name did you say? - Raju Been ages since I saw Meghna. Glad to meet you "When I was in India, Meghna and I were good friends" "Just friends, sir? - Yes, 25 years ago. Afterwards..." I never got a chance to see her. - Never got a chance? Or never wanted? "Circumstances were such... anyway, how's Meghna?" She's no more How is your Daddy? - Fine What is he doing? - Whatever you're doing Businessman? - Yes What business? - Same as yours Really? What's his name? - Same as yours R.P. Mittal...? - Yes What a coincidence! - Worth a handshake? What nonsense...! - Not at all. You are my father Nice way to make money. - I'm not interested in your money "All I'm interested in, is you. - How clever! You want an inheritance" What proof of being my son? Look What a scoundrel! You've been plotting "Are you using a photo? Why of course, I knew Meghna" "Please, look closely. I resemble my Ma" "Yes, you look like your mother! But not like me. Come on..." That's my son and he resembles me but you don't resemble me You can put me to a DNA test. - No. And don't come looking for me "Look, I understand your problem. You got a family" "For once, just tell me that I'm your son and I'll go away" "And never again will I show my face. Please, for my mother's sake..." You are talking like a fool! Why should I accept you as my son? "Well, if you're adamant, then it's your genes I carry" "And one day, you will recognize me as your son" What will you do? What can you do? Want to see? If you won't accept me as your son... I will shake the very foundations of your family Robin! Are you laughing at me? I got a serious problem "How naive, Rajesh. He must be a fraud looking for money" What evidence of your parentage? - He asked for a DNA test And there's no deny that I had a relationship with Meghna Then why didn't you marry her? - I was scared of Daddy "Before migrating, I promised Meghna I'd speak to Daddy about marriage" Little did I know that Daddy had already finalized a match for me And no one refutes Purushottam Mittal and I know all that. At his age... "if he still rages, I can guess what he might've been 25 years ago" So I kept my silence. And after 25 years... the silence returns to my life in a pandemonium. What am I to do? "If your family gets wind of this, you're finished" Smita will abandon you. So will your kids And your father is going to throw you out You will have no standing left. Your stock prices are doomed "After businessman of the year, you will be called fraud of the year" You're ruined! - Are you scaring me? "Take it as you will, but find him, coax him into returning to India" I hope he doesn't turn up at your doorstep. All I can give you is counsel "Rest, up to you. Come on, get in the car" What poise You...? Why have you come here? - Where will son go if not to Daddy? Who...? - Not to be unnerved I'll bring about a family reunion. - Don't you dare call me Dad Dad... Daddy... Father dear... - Such endearment is killing And don't think I'm going to accept you. What proof have you? "Looking for proof? I'll provide proof, in front of everyone" Is Grandpa at home? - Maybe... why? Grandfather... Grandpa... stepmother... "Rinke, don't go by what he says! He's a fraud" But this photograph can't be a fake No Rinke... Bunty... I'm not what you think "That's the sad part, Dad. You aren't what we thought you are" "Smita, whatever you heard... don't believe what he said" I have lost faith on the man I worshipped like a god Son of a gun! - Whom can I trust now? Stepmother... trust me. He isn't worthy of your trust "He has deceived you, because of him my mother died" Home-wrecker Daddy... - Don't you dare call me Daddy I have no son. You are a criminal! A murderer! You killed his mother "And you have broken my trust, and your wife's trust" You have betrayed your children. Purushottam Mittal never forgives... "certainly not a criminal, no matter even if he's my son" "From this day, we will have nothing to do with you" Throw him out No! Not so heartlessly My golf bag! It's expensive! What are you doing? My wardrobe! Those dresses are expensive What are you doing? What's going on? My shoes... - You're lucky... you deserve... "getting beaten up with a boot! - Buta Singh, you too...?" As long as you belonged to the family you were my boss. Now you're a stranger I recognize only your father. If I see you around ever again... remember my stick. - You too...? "Don't worry Dad, we'll put up a sale of your belongings on the sidewalk" No! No sparing you! Scoundrel! Cur! - No sparing...? Whom? What's up? That devil is after me! - Daddy... Why did you turn up? "He's surely disturbed, obviously he's afraid" "What are you saying, Khanna? What could he be afraid of?" "Something on his mind, that he can't bring himself to speak" But he has never hidden anything from us "No, no. Work is important. But health is more important" "Don't worry, I'll write a prescription. He'll be fine tomorrow morning" "As of now, he needs rest" "Bunty, switch off the lights" You took ill last night? The doctor saw you? "Not to worry, I'll be there tomorrow. You'll love to see your big boy" How did you get my bedroom number? Where did he transpire from? What's that crowd? - Managers being interviewed What are you doing here? - You're hiring a stranger? Instead of your son? - It's a job for a highly qualified man What have you got to show? - Something no one else got to show What do you mean? - Your name. You're boss because... you're Purushottam Mittal's son. And I'm his grandson. So I'm taking over My word...! - Thank you sir My dead Ma's soul will bless you What is it that you want? - Take me home to my family As if that's so easy? Do I tell them that I picked a puppy on my walks? "Okay, I'll tell them myself. - Oh no... sit" "Look, I need some time. - How much time?" "20 years, 25 maybe. - Long enough to be dead and gone?" I'll give you 7 days. Day Eight... I'm coming home to you All right. - Put me up in a fancy hotel And give me a thousand pounds You brought him here? What do you take my house for? An orphanage? You don't get this! He's threatening! If I don't put him up somewhere... he'll come home to me. - Put him up in a hotel Impossible! My credit card will be charged. If Daddy gets wind... he's going to throw me out. - You're his son and you're afraid? I'm his legal advisor. He'll throw me out of London. Sorry I won't entertain your follies. - I came hoping... "you'd help me out of my predicament. Well Robin, you're still my only friend" "So what if you aren't a friend in need? - Look, no emotional blackmail" "Okay, but no more than a week. - Thanks Robin" Mention not and send him over. - I brought him along Where...? - In my car In your car...? Are you crazy? - That's what he's doing to me Raju... where's he gone? - Must've gone home "If that turns out to be true... - Good riddance, I say" "Not so soon, Dad. - No Daddy-ing me" This is your uncle Robin Singh. And he's the one... Raju You're living with him. I'm getting late. Excuse me "Don't be late coming back to me. On Day Eight, I'm coming home to you" Some soup Pick your bags. - Who me...? Call a bell boy. - Are you raving? "Is this a self service hotel? - Mister, this is my house" And mind your language. I'm not your Daddy's servant I'm his legal advisor. - My illegal father's legal advisor? Can I ask something? - What...? Is the law business slack? - What makes you say that? You've turned a perfectly lovely house into a hotel? "This is no hotel, this is my house! And I'm putting you up for a week" Because your Daddy begged me! - One more question...? Go on. - How did you lose all that hair? "Sonia, my child... allow me..." You know each other? - Intimately We've met. Once at the airport and once at the award function "And now here in this hotel. What are you, housekeeping?" One minute... this is no hotel. This is my home and I own it She's my daughter and Raj is putting up for no more than a week "Come on Raj, let me show you to your room" May I have two glasses of milk? Quick. - Two glasses... milk...? "Here's your room. But tell me, how come you're here?" I'm consulting your Daddy. The verdict should be in a week "First, my verdict. This is his room. And you aren't seeing each other" "In that case, let's go out" Bewitching eyes Bewitching words "Most bewitching, your heart..." throbbing inside my heart "Now's our time, now is the season..." of our passions "Whatever happens, let it happen" This is our time I'm pining I'm eager The flame of our love... is burning... inside my heart "An irrepressible storm rages under my breath" "Don't hold yourself back, my love I could even die for you" I can't live without you In you I seek refuge Like a monsoon deluge... your love is raining on me Bewitching eyes Bewitching words "Most bewitching, your heart..." throbbing inside my heart How many times have I warned you? No more credit until you settle dues "But you keep coming back, romancing at my expense" "I'll pay you back with interest. - No, I want it today" "Why won't you trust him, junior? If he says he'll repay, he will" "No Big Brother, he thinks we're fools to let him drink and gamble..." "have fun with girls, at our expense. On blow is enough to kill him..." Stop Why? - If I'm dead... you can't recover. Give me one more chance "Yes, we can always kill him some other day" Give that to me. - My game isn't over "When Vicky takes over, your game's over. Get lost" You're Indian? - So...? Courtesy is always offering someone else the first go And you insist on going first? - Culture lectures for India. Shove One more courtesy. - What...? "First, you try to reason like a gentleman, use words" "If he still doesn't get it, use hands" All nine Vicky isn't here yet. - Should be coming "Here I come, Daddy" Here he is. - Hi Vicky! Welcome What's he up to? Bless you Careful Dad. He's going to trip you "Long time, no see? - I was a bit busy at work" Busy philandering Your father and Rajesh were very close friends. He is no more But we would like the friendship to continue as a relationship The two of you are in love. As a member of the family... you will ably assist in our businesses "No sir, people will think I married for money" I want to do something on my own. I want to become someone like him "Dear Daddy, my obeisances" May I come over to the family reunion? Where are you speaking from? - Out of my mouth. Turn your head What are you doing here? - Let's talk over there Nowhere! What are you doing here? - Pursuing you Why...? - It's my sister's wedding "You want me to end up divorced? - You'll do that in two days, no?" Five days. Over. - I still have two days We're discussing a wedding. Please... not right now Daddy... I must tell you something. - Go on I made a mistake. - My son made a mistake? "Daddy, it happened long ago... when I was in India" Who's that? - Pammi's daughter What happened to her? "What happened, my child? - Uncle... Daddy..." But he was fine yesterday. - Nothing happened to him. Only his 20 year old affair is out What...? But he wasn't like that! Must be a misunderstanding "No, he confessed to his wife about an affair with his secretary..." "they married, they have kids too" Your Mummy must be devastated. - She was hospitalized Why? - Overdose of sleeping tablets Why do our women punish themselves for the wrongs of their husbands? He's should've been poisoned "Papa, men like him ought to be whipped on Trafalgar Square" Such double crossers ought to be put on show in Wembley Stadium What rot! I mean... Daddy shouldn't the children mind their words? "Principle-wise, he's right. That's how men like him ought to be punished" "In his place, you would've suffered a similar fate" Day Seven ends. I'm going to have breakfast with your family. Tomorrow Back again? Where are you headed? - No stopping me today "This morning, the first face I saw in the mirror was mine..." and I knew instinctively that a mishap is brewing You may go right in. But no use. - Why...? No one's at home. - Where's everybody? Big Boss is away in America. His son is holidaying. En famille Where...? - How would I know? Why wouldn't you know? - Who's the boss? He or I...? When will they be back? - Not again! I don't know "First you deserted my mother, now you're deserting your son" Was he raving? "What gives, son? Is my house cozier than Daddy's home? You're back...?" He has disappeared. En famille. - So what will you do now? I'm returning to India "You can have your laugh. Your Daddy married your Ma, gave you his name" Will the man who disowned my mother ever accept me? I'm sorry; but wonderful decision. I wish I could do something for you "Had I been your Daddy, I would've accepted you" Want me to pack a meal for you? A big Mac or a pizza? "Will you manage on your own? If you want, I can drop you" "I'll manage on my own. - Quick, or you'll miss the flight" Robin here "Must be bad news. Has he splashed it all over the papers, or is it the TV?" None. Your trouble has flown to India. - Really...? "It wasn't easy though. I reasoned, I lectured him and finally, he got it" Thanks won't do. This warrants something special Come right over. With Sonia. I'll treat you to the best of wines Anybody home? Robin Uncle! - I'm not listening to your song Please... - No way "My baby! How are you? No, Bunty, not your songs! Please" Robin Uncle! I've scored 40 songs! Won't you listen? "Spare me, son. - Robin Uncle is here to relax" Where's Sonia? - She's fetching the luggage "Bunty, some other time... - I'm treating you to a fine wine" "Raju... you...? Hey Raju, get up" You scared me. - Scared? I'll wipe out that scare Friend indeed! You removed the thorn in my side Give me a hug What happened? "Hello Daddy! Wonderful, am I not?" What have I done? - Hotshot lawyer? Your license ought to be revoked. A kid got you fooled You've put me in a fix I want to evade! - This boy isn't a simpleton His father must've been a scoundrel of the first order "Smita, Rinke, Bunty! They're here! If he exposes me, I'm ruined" "You should've considered that before. - Yes, it was a mistake, but..." "If you're King, I'm ace" "You still got time, recant" "I respect this relationship but don't think I'm afraid" Now we're going to court Don't you try to buy me out "Daddy dear, try to understand what I mean" "Else, I'm going to leave you dumbfounded" "No fax, no Xerox, no telex, no floppies" "I'm just my Papa's carbon copy" What's going on? - Raju is our host. We're playing... "Who wants to be a millionaire - Let's play "Million Dollar Question" "Robin, sit with us" So let's play Who wants to be a millionaire "Rinke, name the movie in which Amitabh Bachchan ruins his Daddy" A. Deewar B. Trishul C. Kaalia D. Natwarlal Trishul We lock that away? "Computer-ji, lock B. Trishul" Absolutely correct "Ms Rinke I'm so happy you've won. - Raju, next question for me" "No, let him quiz me. - No, it's me" Our next contestant is Ms Smita. Welcome Me...? - Yes "Ms Smita, have you seen Wife Number One?" Yes. - In Karishma Kapoor's place... what would you have done? A. Divorce B. Poison your husband's lentil soup. C. Forgive him "If you have any confusion, you can use your life-lines" Fifty-fifty. Phone-a-friend. Or Audience Poll I'd like to use Phone-a-friend. - Who would you like to phone? My husband. Raj. - Okay. Call up Mr. R.P. Mittal "Mr. Mittal, I'm Amitabh Bachchan from Who wants to be a millionaire" I haven't time for this nonsense "Mr. Mittal, everyone knows you're a very busy man" But you must spare time for your wife "Next, you will hear your wife and you have just 30 seconds" "Your time starts now. - Raj, in the heroine's place..." "should I have divorced, or walked out, or poisoned my husband or forgiven him?" Forgive him... no? What else? Forgive him "Tell me, would you go by your husband? Or will it be an independent decision?" You still have two lifelines left. Fifty-fifty. And Audience Poll Try Fifty-fifty You're saved "If you went along with your husband, you would've lost, forgiven him" Divorcing would also be wrong. Now you're left with two options Walking out? Or poisoning him? Think. Because in this game time is no factor Audience Poll Audience Poll Let's hear what the audience says. Should Smita walk out on her husband? "Or, should she poison his lentil soup? - Poison him" Time out Serve dinner. - Why end the discussion? Shut up and eat. - Some lentil soup? Why aren't you taking lentil soup? It's your favorite "No, I prefer pasta. - I hope the lentil soup isn't poisoned" "Son, buttered bread for you? Your plate is absolutely empty" You remind me of my mother. Even she never fed me so lovingly Where is your mother? - She's no more And your Papa? - Very close to me "Very close...? - He means, very close to his heart" "What does your Papa do? - Jockey, cabbie, salesman, whatever" How are you concerned? - Why are you getting worked up? What an ill-timed conversation! Let's eat "There's a time for everything. - Let's eat, then we go to bed" You've piled up your plate... - Even you are talking too much Eat. You have to leave. - But where will Raju go? "Wherever! How are we concerned? - Dad, Raju came with us" Let him stay on. - No strangers allowed in the family At times even small things are a matter of embarrassment "Ms Smita, in you I see my Ma, in him, a father" "And in them, a brother and a sister. I felt as if I'm here with my family" "Aunt! Stop Raju! Dad, Raju lived with us when we were in London, no?" You see... his father and I are great friends. So I had to accommodate him "So what's the problem now? Mummy... - Yes Aunt, tell them" Raju isn't going anywhere. He's staying right here "Now, why did we stop the quiz? - How do I know? Eat" Sonia isn't in her room! Raju isn't in his room. Have they eloped? Sonia! What have you done to yourself? - I'm Bunty. Uncle how about a song? "Come slowly, stir me restless" "Stir me restless, make my heart throb" "My heart's empty, I want to have fun" "Crazy-crazy ...my heart's crazy about you" "Oh that killer figure, those killer eyes..." "bewitching me slowly, but now I'm gone too far" "It's a treacherous time, so why be shy?" "Crazy-crazy ...my heart's crazy about you" "You cast a spell on me and I gave in to you..." "and now everyone's talking about us ...look they've lost their hearts" "I swear, this is so breathtaking" "Crazy-crazy ...my heart's crazy about you" "Come slowly, stir me restless" "Stir me restless, make my heart throb" "My heart's empty, I want to have fun" "Crazy-crazy ...my heart's crazy about you" "I'm doomed! Your son has ruined me! - Why, what happened?" He's romancing my daughter and what-not! My only daughter Are you accusing Bunty? He's just a kid! "Not Bunty... Raju! - Robin, I'm hassled no less" He keeps threatening! He'll expose me! What am I going to do...? Idea! Let's destroy the evidence! - How...? Come with me Hurry up before someone comes in! - Found it What...? - His visa expired 8 days ago The immigration officials are going to extradite him But what are we supposed to do? - Not a thing. The police will do... whatever is to be done! - I see Doesn't he seem familiar? - The same guy... who claims to be your son. Wasn't he romancing my daughter? So he is the one! - You can have your laugh "All these days, you've had your laughs at my expense. Now it's my turn" "Akbar, the Emperor. He walked barefoot, praying for a son" And look at me! What a father! Not to be too elated. - Why? What will you do? Will you put up posters in India saying I'm your father? Or will you scream it from rooftops? He can't do a thing I'm coming back with another visa. - You aren't getting any visa I'm R.P. Mittal's son R.P. Mittal's son! My word! I want to live all over again I want to die all over again What gives? - The holiday is working wonders for me I'm washed of all my sins! I've been baptized Days of sorrow are no more Whom do you want to see? - What do you mean? "Buta Singh, have you forgotten me? - It's a boy, sir" He has been trying to get in and maybe he's masquerading as you...? No one's coming anymore "Daddy, look who's here! - Coming" "Why are you screaming? Well, who's here?" You...? How come you're here? - I brought him You...? - I met him at the airport They were deporting him to India Grandpa... "What's up? - Grandpa, I'm Raju" "Raju, who...?" "You're Mr. Purushottam, aren't you? Mr. Rajesh Mittal's father...?" I'm like a son to him. That makes you my grandfather And his wife loves me like her own son "Rinke and Bunty adore me too, like an elder sibling" Uncle Robin and Sonia love me too. - No son of the Mittals will be hurt... as long as Purushottam Mittal lives. So much influence I wield in the U.K. I called the embassy and I got his visa extended You did...? In U.K. No injustice will be done to an Indian... "as long as Purushottam Mittal lives. Besides, he is related to you" He told you everything? - I never had to Grandpa made me out I see... - That was a great thing to do Where are you staying? Do drop in or maybe a call once in a while...? Drop in where? He's staying right here He's here because he wants to make it like you did. To do that... "he must live with you, no?" You said I'd never get a visa? I got a visa right into your home And who validated my visa? Grandpa. You told me to shout from rooftops...? I'll scream it from your rooftop and I'll plaster your walls with posters Until such time that... you own up and say that my mother was your wife and I am your son Aren't you stopping me? - No stopping one who's already in Will you tell me who you are? - My Daddy's son So who's Daddy? - I haven't yet told Grandpa that How can I tell you? - Was he trying to make a point? "Here you are, Grandpa. Duets of Saigal and Suraiya" Where did you find them? - Perchance "Son, I haven't had a chance to talk with you" Let's talk now...? - Where's your Daddy? There No one's there. - You can't see him. Only I can What do you mean? - It's said that after my Ma died... he left me. But I still see him. Just like I see him But no one's... Daddy is right here and only I can see him... as he sees me No one else can see him. - You love him so much? I only pray every father has a son like you How old were you when your Daddy left you? I wasn't even born then God rest his soul Daddy! Don't fall at my feet! - Shut up You just made my Daddy pray for the soul of his son! And I'm still alive My watch! Why are you wearing mine? - Now it's mine "As if it belongs to your Dad! - Yes, my stepmother gave it to me" What spell have you cast upon her? But remember... the expensive watch doesn't mean that you've hit good times "At least it marks the changing times in your case, bad; mine are good" But it's only a watch. Watch how I take things from you one at a time Why...? - Time-pass Do I see a famous singer exercising? - Dad hates my music Only when you sing it in English. I'll write a Hindi song for you Sing it and he'll give you a big hug! - Go right ahead and write it up "Breakfast is ready. Where's Bunty? - Dad, I want to sing a song" How many times have I told you? I don't want to hear your songs "Come on, give him an audience. - Is it worth hearing...?" "Just listen. What's come over you? Go on son, sing" What is this? Great "There was a king and his queen and what a great life they had" "But in his youth, the king had made a great mistake..." "and he paid for it dearly in his ageing years" Stop singing these rotten songs! - What have you done? "Dad, why did you break my guitar? - Next time you sing a rotten song..." I'll break your arms and legs. - Is this how you behave with kids? "Poor thing, all he did was sing a song. - And what's come over you of late?" Why are you getting irked over every little thing? Take him to a doctor He badly needs treatment How went the song? - Forget it This was the first time I sang and he broke my guitar. Next time... he'll break my bones. - Now I get this feeling... that it's a conspiracy to nip your talent in the bud What conspiracy? - If you become a singer... who will work for the Mittals for free? Now I know! But what am I to do? "Put up a fight. - No, I'd hate hitting Dad" "No, it's a fight for your rights. Look at that house" "You own it too, don't you? Pick your share and walk" Score an album with the money. - But whom do I ask for my share? Go to court. - What if it makes Dad angry? "Forget Daddy. Rajesh Mittal, the man you're fighting is your adversary" "Go and say, Rajesh Mittal, give me my share" "Rajesh Mittal, please give me my share. - Are you asking for lollipop?" No... - Then say it with conviction "Rajesh Mittal, give me my share. - Now take the Mittal out of it" Rajesh! Give me my share! - Cut out the regard for your father Rajesh! Give me my share! - Pep it up You want your share? - No Dad! I don't want my share Moron "I thrashed Bunty, all because of Raju! - It's only Bunty who has rebelled" "If you don't prevent this soon enough, your entire family will revolt" "Before that, I'll kill that scoundrel. - Spoken like a man!" "That's the only way out. - Hey, that just slipped out" "Can I ever do that? - In that case, I'll do it" You mean...? - A few of my clients... "will do anything for money. This too. - What are you saying, Robin?" "Whether or not I accept him, he's still my son. I can't kill him" Who's talking about killing him? Let's just break some bones "He'll get scared and he will run away. - No, I don't like all this" "He's wrecking homes, yours and mine. - How come...?" He's seducing my only daughter If I don't stop him soon enough... I'll lose my daughter and you'll lose your family. Give me his photo "You fancied belonging to my family, didn't you? Now watch..." how I cut you off from my family "Look, how beautiful my family looks ...without you" "Deliver this photo to Uncle Robin. - Raju, isn't it?" "Yes, but don't you tell anyone! This is a secret. Family secret" Where to...? - To Uncle Robin What for...? - Can't tell you. It's a secret "I'm no stranger. Tell me, it'll still remain a secret" If I told you that Dad asked me to deliver your photo to Uncle Robin... Dad will thrash me again! - My photograph? Show me Look. - What a moron you are Why...? - Such a great secret! "How can you carry it openly? Wait, I'll put it in an envelope" "Raju, my brother! You're swell! You just saved me a scalping" Thank me. - Thank you Bash him up! Make him leave London He's the one...? - You don't know. He's a scoundrel He's romancing my daughter! - This one...? Yes! He takes her in his arms and he sings songs "This one...? - Yes, my daughter wants to marry him" Is your daughter blind? - Blinded in love Please! Save my daughter! Here's your fee. 5000 pounds "Dad, I want to become a singer, not athlete" "Moron! Look at you, so heavy! You don't even fit your clothes" "Stop it, Dad" He's beating Dad...! I'll show him... oh no I'll get bashed up Daddy wants to see his son dead. And here's a son... who can't bear to watch Daddy taking a beating. Now watch... "this scoundrel son of yours. Come on, man" What soap do you use? "Daddy, he packs a mean punch" Let go of him. - No Grandpa I'm not sparing him! He assaulted your son "He made a mistake. I mean, he wasn't trying to kill me" Whom was he trying to kill? - He wasn't trying to kill anyone "No one. Actually, he was mugging me. - The way he bashed you up..." Shut up! - One minute... let him confess it Forget it Daddy! - Shut up Talk "Who sent you? - Daddy, for nothing..." Clam up Your dearest friend...? - My lawyer...? What are you doing? - Ingrate You paid him to kill my son? - No "Grandpa, he's just a pawn. The prime mover is someone else" "Don't you butt in. Stay out. - Grandpa, you must ask him..." who's behind all this? - Who is he...? I'll flay you alive! Talk. - I sent him to hit Raju Me...? What have you got against me? - I know! I know everything He's behind all this! He's in love with Robin's daughter But he doesn't approve of Raju. I know! He's behind all this You want to kill this innocent boy over such a small thing? Get this straight. Raju is like my grandson If Raju and Sonia are in love with each other... no power on earth can set them apart "Not you, not even your daddy" "Grandpa, they're hiding Sonia somewhere" It's been a week. Will you ask him where Where is she? Where...? "If you won't talk, I'll slap you" Ceasar's. The shopping mall "Sonia, who are you talking to? - None of your concern" Let go of that arm. Not even a call! And now you come romancing me? "Look, I'm here or a purpose. - Look me up after the purpose" What's the matter with you? "I hope you aren't hurt...? - Oh no, not at all" Just a small internal injury. That touch healed it all You're rather handsome. - Not even my mother said that to me "Shera... - Go on, pal" What is this...? - One minute. Excuse me... get over with your shopping. Come along Shera... You're in town? - Yes. And you...? I'm in town too. - How come we never met before? "Strange, no...? - One minute, Shera" "Tell me whatever, tomorrow. Just now I'm busy" Who's he? He's disturbing us. - Never mind him Let me have your telephone number. - Why number? You can have my card It's my private number. Call me whenever you want See you. - Sure. I'll talk to you on phone "She fell for you? - Well, naturally" She's Sonia and we're in love and she's angry... because I haven't telephoned her for sometime. She gave you her number... because she wants me to get jealous. - Goodness! How sinful! Why didn't you tell me before? - If only you gave me the chance "Go on, get lost" "Hey, are you really in love, or are you trying to outdo me?" "I swear by my mother. - Go on, get lost" Magic My love... "your bewitching eyes have robbed my heart of peace" "Now say yes, my love" "Did I know I'd fall in love?" "Did I ever know how I'd pine for you?" "Your bewitching eyes like daggers..." "and your beauty, I've lost my heart to" "Now say yes, my love" Magic "Darling, I forgive you" "You've cast such a spell on me my heart is enthralled" I'm so enthralled... "I'll wake sleepless nights enraptured in memories of you" "Come to me, my love" My love... "Your bewitching eyes have robbed my heart of peace" "Come to me, my love" Magic... this is the magic What are you up to? Reading my face? Or breaking my face? I'll tell you 3 points about yourself. - Go on "First, your money is what you earned. - You thought I stole it?" "No, I mean, you didn't inherit. You made it by dint of your efforts" Everyone knows that. Say something new "Raju, read his face. - This is preposterous!" Give me a chance Out of the geography of your face I'll decipher your past And present and future. In a second. - Everyone knows about my past I'm confident about the present. I'll face tomorrow when it comes "Grandpa, he's afraid. What is he hiding? - Nothing at all" "At heart, my son is clean. - Sure?" "Raju, read his face. - Come off it" Give me once chance Daddy! What would he know? - Grandpa! You sired a rare son "He's unique! The business will scale heights, riches will lie at his feet" And he is destined to have 3 children. One daughter and two sons I wish I had another grandson to manage the business. Your son is hopeless "Grandpa, there's something I'd like to tell him in private" In private? Why? - Such is the matter I'm his wife! We have no secrets. And I'm his father. No secrets Tell us everything "A secretive man will even keep things from himself, no?" "I told you, out with it. - If you insist, I'll tell you" Have courage In his lifetime... he has had the love of two women What's this I hear? - Nonsense! You trust him? "Next, he will say that he is my son! Will you trust him?" I warned you! He knows nothing! - He took it otherwise I only said what was written on his face "I'm sorry, but the face never lies" You believe whatever that moron says? - Didn't Mrs. Walia trust her husband? And what happened to her? Be true to me are you in love with another woman? Do I tear my heart out to show you? - No Just swear it on your children and rid me of this suspicion "Look Smita, I can ever swear falsely. - What did you say...? Swear falsely?" Yes Stop... wait... I was just citing an example. One who is deceitful... might even swear falsely. - He'd swear fearlessly too "Were it not for your father and the kids, I would've left this house" "But as of now, I'm leaving this room. - Oh no... Smita..." "Separate rooms... to separate houses to moving out of town, out of this country" So what if your wife is gone? Your big son stands beside you Do you know any lullabies? You are the devil! You are wrecking my home Hey! Did I kill you? - I loved that one Will you sing that one for me? - Why are you after my life? "You...? What are you doing here? - A job, sir" Are you raving? - I'm your personal assistant Are you drunk? - No I won't hire you for an errand boy! - I know You'd never make an errand boy out of your son How did he get here...? And what are you doing here? I appointed him He's like you. You'll be comfortable with him. He even walks like you I'll end up a cripple. - Me too He even talks like you. - I'll start stuttering Me too. - He even worships the same god as you I'll change my gods! - Me too His habits are the same too. Carbon copy. Exactly But naturally! He's my copy. - What...? "Forget it! I mean, he emulates me." My word! He's very nice. Hire him "All right, I will. Get going now" Is that phone ringing? She has just left I'm Mr. Mittal's son. - None of that Dead. Just like your heart. - What do you want from me? "It was here, in this room that I told you..." I'd shake your family to it's very foundations. Now I've done it You are mistaken. In this office you are an employee Your place is over there. Get to work. - You are mistaken My place is over there. As long as I'm alive that place is mine "But I will never let anything befall you, Dad" What a rogue God! So grave a punishment for such a small mistake? "This is injustice! Have mercy! Else, I'll be left in tears" Daddy is responsible for all this. He extended Raju's visa "The visa is expiring. The ministry has faxed us, asking for fees..." for extending the visa. - What a godsend! I hope you haven't shown it to anyone? - This fax? No "Tear it up, throw it away. The fee won't be paid" He will become an illegal immigrant. I will call the police They will deport him back to India Tear it up The prayer is nearly over and no sign of the police yet Your visa has expired. We have orders to deport you right away But Daddy extended his visa. - The extension period is over You should've sent prior intimation. - We faxed your offices But your office hasn't replied yet. - What? You faxed my office? And I know nothing? How can this be? Who wouldn't want Raju to be with me? "After all, he's just like my son. Raju my boy, you're leaving London..." I'll miss you dearly! I'll weep for you But there must be a way out. - No way There's one way. - What way? That What can she do? - She loves me and I love her British passport? - Yes Now I don't need any visa. I'm getting a passport. British He's raving "After the seven vows, we're taking an eighth. For my British passport" Bless us "According to U.K. Laws, he cannot be deported" Robin! The police came! By now he would've been in India "Then your daughter married that rascal, made him a citizen" Mr. Mittal! Don't you dare call my son-in-law names "Son-in-law...? - Yes, I love my daughter dearly" I approve of the man whom my daughter loves Don't you dare malign Raju. - What are you saying? My only friend! Has that scoundrel weaned you away from me too? I'll even take you to court How about a cup of tea? - Cut out the sugar My bangles chime... do you like it? The colour of henna on me... do you like it? "I love the colour of your bangles, the henna stain shows your love for me" "You're one-in-a-million this is like a dream come true" "Come to me, my love..." I'm eager I'm pining for you... "I'm waiting for you, my love" "Tonight, I'll make love to you..." I'll cross every limit The colour of vermilion on me... do you like it? The colour of henna on me... do you like it? "I love the colour of your vermilion, the henna stain shows your love for me" "You're one-in-a-million this is like a dream come true" "Your seduction, and my Loneliness..." "bring us closer, distances are no more" Your destiny is mine Your dreams are mine Come to me The colour of my veil... do you like it? The colour of henna on me... do you like it? "I love the colour of your veil, the henna stain shows your love for me" "You're one-in-a-million this is like a dream come true" Where is he? Where are you? Fresh stuff Lucky dog Pull him up Well...? Get up "Are you frittering away my money, gambling?" When will you return my money? Why are you beating a gentleman? - The scoundrel won't take my calls "Oh, but that's true. Why don't you take calls?" You think I'll give up my money if you won't take my calls? Get up. Will I give up my money? - Sock him hard Enough. I'll pay you back. - And how? "If he says he will pay you, he will. - But how?" "True, he's up to his hair in debt. - That's why I tell you, kill him" End of tensions. - Put that gun away Ever heard of R.K. Mittal? I'm marrying his daughter R.K. Mittal is giving you his daughter? I think ten times before lending to you "You don't believe? Come, take a look. - Shall we?" Sure. - But... this is your last chance Vikram I never met your uncle. - He lives in South Africa "Mr. Mittal, by God's grace my business is doing very well" I'd like Vikram to move in with me. He has no family here But we're here. - Not like a son-in-law Take him for a son. - He is like a son to me "Mr. Mittal, now that I'm here, I'd like to see Vikram married" How long will you be here. - Abut a fortnight But that's too short a notice. - Sooner or later... we got to see him married off. So why not now? "Not before another four or five years, I think. Rinke is till a child" "If the wedding is final, later won't hurt, will it?" Who is he? - He is employed in this house So it's my duty to consider the best of the interests for the household "Quiet, Raju" How can we organize a wedding at such short notice? "Mr. Mittal, half of England dances to your whim" "At two days' notice, you can give your daughter a grand send-off" Maybe. But we have certain plans. She is our only daughter If the wedding happened while my uncle is here... someone from my father's side may bless the union Let's think this over. We'll let you know in a day or two Bless you. I have a long-standing relationship... with the business group you're approaching. Give them my regards Mittal and Sons have a standing all over Europe. Take care Sorry to be late. - Where are you going? He's leaving. - He is leaving...? Are you really leaving? - Yes I'll drop you to the airport. - He's accompanying you Accompanying me...? You aren't well. He's going to take care of you He makes it worse for me! - What a thing to say...! "Take care of him, son. - Grandpa, have nothing to worry" You will find a remarkable change by the time he returns I'll take good care of him. - Wonderful We are the only industrialists marketing Indian cars worldwide We gave the European agencies to Purushottam Mittal... only because he's an Indian "In the beginning, sales peaked" We have decided to revoke the agency. - What are you saying? Purushottam Mittal started out with our agency "Now that you have grown, you haven't got the time for servicing us" This agency isn't about money "Recently, I received the businessman of the year award" No business associate has never severed ties with us "As you know, our showrooms are located in prime spots" Our sales department is very efficient. - Yet sales have plummeted "Somewhere, something is going wrong" "Sure, something is wrong. But we aren't to blame" "If there's something wrong, it's there in your cars" The cars you use are of another make. The day you use your cars... you will shut shop. - What are you saying? I'm telling him facts. In the 21 st century... you're selling cars from the time when Hitler went to school What are you saying? Sit down. - Let him speak "Fuel efficiency in your cars is zero. Looks zero, comfort zero, drive zero" Whatever you're selling is thanks to the reputation of the Mittals "Else, your sales would've been zero. Your car is a bullock cart" This is a car. Look Come with me He has ruined me! What a scoundrel "For the first time, I am aware of my weaknesses" You spoke the truth without hesitating Our company needs honest employees like you Come over to us. I'll pay you the asking price "Forgive me, sir. Not for money, not for anything, can I ever leave him" But I have a request. Please let him keep the agency Very well. Mittal keeps the agency "Only because, he has you" Why do you go about everything so surreptitiously? Eavesdropping? Even loving surreptitiously? Not even for all the world's wealth will I ever desert you "Enough, sir. What are you doing? - I'm drinking because I'm elated" You've won my heart! Ask and I'll give you anything you wish "But what can you ask for? Come on, come with me" One second... Listen... look at me This is my long-lost son! And I am his father I am... his father I was unjust towards him and his mother. I hurt them "But I was helpless. Because... - Sir, they're whites. Use English" "Watch it, Dad. - Do you think I'm drunk?" Listen to this song "I've become a riddle and I'm afraid I don't know how to solve this riddle" "It moves me to tears now that I see you in the bloom of your youth" "I remember everything, I haven't forgotten anything" "I was helpless, I'm not evil" "Forgive me, you are my son" "Embrace me, for you are only my shadow" "No fax, no Xerox, no telex, no floppies" "You're just your Papa's carbon copy" Carbon copy "No fax, no Xerox, no telex, no floppies" "I'm just my Papa's carbon copy" Carbon copy Bring in the tea. Get up "Come on, let's have tea, father and son" What's this Dad-Dad up in the morning? - Last night you said I'm your son Are you raving? When did I accept you as my son? "Last night, at the bar" My head... - You screamed your head off Were there any acquaintances nearby? Did someone overhear me? "Regrettably, only whites. - Then forget last night's story" Pack up. It's time for the flight Isn't that what you said to my Ma? Forget last night's story. Then you packed and you flew You lied to me about Dad being dead. You knew I wouldn't be able to bear it And why did you send me to him? You knew what kind of man he is Then why did you lie to me? Why? - Are you raving? I'm talking to my Ma. Do you object? "Last night's story! Last night in a drunken stupor, you acknowledged me" Did you marry my Ma in a drunken stupor? What do I remind you of? Of one too many whiskies? Do you think I'm after your money? The joy of finding my Daddy alive drove me mad. I thought... my father would welcome me with open arms... I expected you'd tell everyone that I'm your Meghna's son And you think that I'm after your wealth? Who do you think this boy in tattered jeans is? "Your manservant, begging you to acknowledge him as your son?" Some poor Meghna Saxena's son coming after your money? "Say, with whom would Purushottam Mittal like to do business in India?" Raj Industries? And who's Raj? The man who stands before you owns Raj Industries I am wealthy I left everything behind and I came here for you Now I don't want your name. You never did your duty "But Mr. Mittal, I will surely do my duty as a brother before I leave" And afterwards... I will never return What's in that? - Money my friend "If you're marrying a Mittal, you ought to have the spending power" You bashed me up for so little money. What might you do for so much? "Past things, past. Now I'm your uncle" You forgot that relationship while you were bashing me up? It's all his fault. Wasn't I always telling him not to? "Now don't be angry. Come on, bash me up" What makes you so kind? - Son-in-law to the Mittals That's what you're about to become. And it's a pan-Europe business We'd like to run our illegitimate businesses alongside yours "Nice idea, no? - Wonderful idea..." blowing up your father-in-law's money and your uncle's too. You got it made What are you doing here? - I haven't come alone I brought your father-in-law and your fianc along Mr. Mittal Is he your son-in-law to-be? Will you give him your daughter? I'll give him a hand. Not Rinke's. Mine Scoundrel! You deceived us! You cheated my daughter He would've ruined your life. Now your father is beating him. Good I was about to give you my daughter! And this is how you repay me? Mr. Mittal... - Shut up! What will you do? I'll turn you over to the police Get a doctor - Get out of here Rinke calling. She sounds nervous. - Yes Rinke...? Papa has been... shot. - What happened to him...? He's in I.C.U. - What?! Grandfather! By bringing Mr. Mittal to the hospital I completed one phase of my duty And I'll accomplish my second duty by bashing you up Both his kidneys have failed. - So what are you waiting for? Do something. Don't worry about money. I'm willing to spend anything This is not about money. A donor is needed for a kidney transplant "Doctor, take my kidney. - I can't. You're an ageing diabetic" "You can use mine, can't you? - No, your blood group doesn't match his" "Doctor, take my kidney. - I'm his chief security officer" "Going by the law, we can use only a relative's kidney" Are relationships only blood ties? I take care of his house It's my duty to protect his life too. I appreciate your emotions But I'm helpless Our Bunty will give a kidney! In times like this... only a son can help. - What? Parting with a kidney? "To his sons, a father gives life. You will be the only son..." who will give life to his father. - No Grandpa. I can't spare a kidney I got to become a pop singer. If I give a kidney away... "how will I sing and dance on stage? - Son, for your sake..." "I'll finance a hundred albums, I'll start a music company" Give a kidney to your Daddy. - You must be the first grandfather... paying for a kidney with a music company. - Bunty! What kind of a son are you? Your Daddy's life holds no value for you? "Rinke, my daughter! She is the apple of her father's eye and she loves him" "she will give her kidney. - Mummy, Bunty is his son" And he refuses to part with a kidney. I'm a girl. How can you ask this of me? "I'll marry, I will have babies. I've got a whole life ahead of me" What if life without a kidney becomes problematic? "The man who gave you all his love, the man who taught you how to walk..." his life is all about seeing you happy. - He isn't doing us a favour "Rearing children, giving them an education, is a parent's duty" And the offspring? Does the child have no duty towards the parent? Now that I see the truth about you I know what a great man my son is All my life he obeyed me. Not for a day did he do what he wished "For the sake of my principles, he sacrificed his happinesses" How helpless I am! I can do nothing for my son...? I'm supposed to be the richest man in London "I tell you, I'm a pauper" I can do nothing to help my son I can do nothing for my son "Life's all about goings and comings..." "a melody woven in joys and sorrows" I got to pay back my debt "This duty, I must perform" "Tomorrow, I may not be here" And I won't trouble you "You and I are tied together in a bond of blood..." that's unforgettable I have informed all my relatives. I have also telephoned India "By tomorrow, someone or the other will surely arrive" Not necessary anymore. - No doctor! Don't say that Nothing can happen to my son! - What's the matter with him? We have transplanted a kidney Transplanted already? But who donated it? "Didn't you say, it must be a relative? - He is a relative" And he has donated it on condition of anonymity I can tell you nothing about him God! I thought I am the greatest of philanthropists And now someone shows me I'm nothing He's more charitable than I am May God make him happy "Hey Bunty, Rinke! Come in" "Daddy, you always said he's a bad coin, didn't you? In this hour of need..." it's the bad coin that has proved useful "The doctor told me, it's a relative who has donated the kidney" I thought... I see... thank you Rinke. Rinke has saved her Papa's life "No son. Neither Rinke, nor Bunty, nor l" Then who...? "I don't know, who or wherefrom. He has remained anonymous" "He presented the doctor with the proof, he gave you life..." then he simply left "How are you, Buta Singh?" What's this son? "Raju, where are you going?" Back to India. - India...? But you came because you wanted to become like him? Are you leaving already? - Because I have realized... no one can be like him. - And you will leave me? Look into my eyes and tell me ...are you leaving me? But how can you say? I'm going to tell them "Daddy, you don't know who Raju is" "Sir, please... say nothing" "You are recuperating, you need rest. - No Raju, if not today..." "I will never be able to say this. Daddy, Smita..." Raju is my son Son...? "So, you are grandpa. This is my mother" And these are my brothers and sisters? Why are you fibbing them? Am I lying? - Or am I lying? You wanted to know who saved my life? "Daddy, he's your blood! My son" See for yourselves! Operation stitches So I donated my kidney. You're lucky our blood groups matched And I owe you too. So what's so great about it? "All along, you nagged be because you wanted me to say you're my son" Now that I'm saying it... - Why should I call you my father? You aren't my Daddy. - No son! Call me Daddy. Say it Why should I...? - Because I'm telling you. Say it If I have struck you I'm using my rights as a father I implore you. I'm pleading with you "I'm begging of you... tell them. - What are you doing, Daddy?" "Well done, son" So father and son have been keeping such a big secret from us? My grandson lived with me and I never had an inkling? Had we not arrived in the nick of time... we would never have known of his sacrifice "Come on son, how am I to blame? Why do you want to leave me?" No one is to blame. I am the only one to blame "I came, wanting to wreck this family..." seeking revenge against the man who ruined my mother "Then I came in to live with you, and I wondered..." whose home am I about to wreck? A home for my father? "A home for my siblings, my grandfather's home" I'm unfit to stay here. So I want to leave "Raju, I'm not letting you leave" How can I tear father from son? "I never even knew I have another son. And today, I've just found him" "Raju, seek from you my rights as a sister" "Stay on, you got to manage all this. I got to become a pop singer" Shut up Everyone else is talking! And who am I...? "You want to go away? Go on, get out right now" "But remember, in the grandson, the grandfather is reincarnated" "If you leave me, I won't live. I'm going to die" It's going to kill me! I'm not letting you go away "What are you saying, Grandpa? - I'm not letting you leave" I'm not leaving. - You won't...? Family reunion! Are we being left out? What's going to become of my daughter? Where are we to go? - Go wherever you want to go Make sure you send your daughter. She's the bride of my house I'm here Ask for Grandpa's blessings. - Bless you "So at last, you acknowledge me?" What a scoundrel
