 

                        "Two hearts bound to one life That's how true love should be" "Take my hand in yours And you'll notice how I feel" "Lighter than a cloud afloat All worries flown away" "If this what heaven feels like we can do this everyday" "That is love That is love" "Oh! That is love That is love" "I will be there for you You can always count on me" "That is love That is love" "Oh! That is love That is love" 'Somehow Something...' Hey! How dare you try to escape? You have no sense And my gun has no license Stoopid fellow! Get in Amos! No worries, go ahead with the wedding preparations, boss I won't spare him at all No wrong route I'll fix it right for you Keep the balance amount you owe me in cash, okay? What are you glaring at me for? Get in, man Stoopid! Move aside 'He looks familiar' Yov! Who are you? Why did you kidnap me? Where are we now? Who was that on the pho-? I do the questioning here If you irritate me my gun will reply! Okay... okay Be careful Uncle- - Uncle... huh? - Oh sorry... sorry Sir...! Just let me go, please I'm in a big mess I have to stop a wedding I must stop you! "Earrings two storey tinkle a story" "Half sari in the breeze flutters to teas-" Why did it stop? Do you watch films? I do Sing one of your favorite songs Why that look? Don't think... sing I can't sing I'm not requesting you It is an order... sing! "Where are you taking me?" Stop it! Are you questioning me again? Yov! This is a song Enough of your songs - If you sing, I'll kill you - Did I volunteer to sing? Tell me some story Start now There once lived a cow with 2 calves When they were grazing in a forest, a tiger- Cow died, tiger fled Is this Aesop's fables for kids? Who wants to hear your childhood story? Stoopid fellow! You'll have your own story to tell Somehow some love would've happened! Tell me how it all began TELL! 'My name is Gautam' 'I have met many girls in my life' 'But Simran... she's different' 'She is amazing' I am coming, Simran 'But God disposed before I proposed!' Sim-ran Please do something, doctor? Don't worry I'll take care Doc-tor! Thank you Do you like it? Has Dr Anand finished his rounds? Yes, he's already going around Simran - Who is Simran? - This patient's girl friend She came to see the patient and hooked the doctor What about him? Instead of landing here on just a stretcher... ...he got admitted by a chic figure Careful, he might hear us As if he is in any state to set things right? 'Smt Lakshmi who heads Shanthi child welfare association...' '...has condemned child labor' I strongly condemn child labor We'll file cases on all offenders and drag them to court Do you know, even I can file a case against you?! This is also child labor Are you a child? It is 20 years since I changed diapers for you Mom...! - Where did you go yesterday? - To your sister's house Don't give me all that crap Where did you gallivant using my sister as an excuse? By all means indulge in your social service But won't you ruin your health if you are obsessed with it 24x7? What's wrong with my health? This is iron body Whose, darling? If you walk a little fast you get breathless You complain of pain in your knees often If anything happens to you I'll look after you But who will take care of me? Chocolate is your bum pal forever! Sorry... sorry Ooops! I almost forgot You got a wedding invitation - From whom? - How will I know? Marriage is last priority for my entire gang! Who is that unlucky fellow? What is wrong if Simran gets married? I know! What 'I know'? She dated him for 6 months and is marrying someone else How can Gautam take it? He was the one who delayed expressing his love to her How can you blame her? We are all attending her wedding And that's final Hey ducky! How can we decide? Shouldn't we think of his plight? How do you feel, dude? Friends, God will offer many girl friends to bad people But in the end, he'll give them a wife who is below pass mark! But for good souls like me he'll start with heart aches and break ups You know He'll bless me with a sooper figure as wife - New theory! - Look how he convinces himself Mahesh, every girl who walks in with a 'hi' has said 'bye' to some guy! Why should she call it off? I'll do the honors royally If not Simran then Sania Mirza Hey! She's already married Okay, some female! I got sidetracked in haste and fell in love with Simran My range is different altogether Forget your range What's your plan now? I didn't miss her She has to realize it is her loss If just for a day gold rate declines will gold lose its value? If Power Star goes to America James Bond will visit India I swear I don't understand any of this Try to understand what you can't understand Understood? I am very clear We are all attending Simran's wedding Thank God! At last we reached in one piece Mahesh, how did you drive nonstop without sleeping? Do you know where food is being served? Hey... hiiii! Anand and Simran look sizzling hot together Simran makes me sizzle too! I left my wallet in the car I'll go and- Hey... don't try the grand escape! Why do you need money now? Meet my husband, Dr Anand Stop Sir...?! Where is the bar counter? This side "I learnt my lesson well And about my Simran as well" What kind of 'blessed' life is this? Why should this accident happen to you? Why did these 2 bond? Why torture yourself to see this blissful state? She bent backwards for me And now...' meet my husband'! How stupid of me to come all this way?! When I think of life I feel like throwing up Correct Is Simran already pregnant and puking after her honeymoon? No, wait a minute I'm coming This is another girl Excuse me Sorry Come, my dear! Just because it is free booze should you drink yourself senseless? Come... come and sit here Hey you! Move Don't hog all the space Alcohol? Same brand! I agree, men and women are equal But even in getting sloshed?! What about our 'nativity' then? Where did it fall? I've seen you somewhere But where? Hello... puking again, huh? Excuse me What are you doing? Where is it? What? My lucky bracelet - Bracelet? - Fallen somewhere Down here? Where? There... no... here Here? Here... right here Stop... wait You look there I'll also... follow you! Nice game! Where the hell did I lose it? You look so familiar My bracelet...? Bracelet You goddamn mongrel and rotten thief Anand If I became slim you promised to marry me In 6 months I lost 25 kilos And you ditched me Will you ever prosper? That bill board on Kodambakkam bridge That's you? Not graphics?! Shut up I'm on a serious scolding spree Don't disturb You bloody dastard Son of a mongrel! Rascal You married that scarecrow Damn rotten disfigured face - Uh... huh? - Simran Bloody Simran Donkey monkey pussycat Hey! Why are you cussing her so decently? My turn now Wasted wastrel! Villain of a vagabond It... it... itch with a bee in front! We are too far away She can't hear us Let's go in and continue You sit over here And I'll take this seat Where do such scumbags come from? Come up with some local swear words Local? My left hand smacks your misshapen face I meant a swear word Not a film's title! Given a chance, they will even name a film this way Happy married life Just watch, I'll dub their dialogs from here Our lineage is... ...a shameless one! Thank God My family is blessed as I am now married to this numb numskull! Her face says it all That she is a bad omen Where are you taking her for your honeymoon? Boat riding in the Coovum river But won't it stink to high Heaven? More than our crappiness?! Shall we bless them? May all melody and harmony not even peep into your lives! I want to go for a drive Which car? That car Thank God it didn't rain today Yes, sir 'Tsunami' is here! Did you see Nithya anywhere? I asked you to keep an eye on her She is already depressed Go and find her now Am I to blame for her depressed state? You kept calling that doctor-nephew of yours as my 'son-in-law' He right royally thrashed your hopes to the ground We should be looking for a son-in-law, not our daughter That's absolutely brainless! I don't even think of you as a human being?! Bang on... otherwise would I have married you?! - I'll kill you - You are a monster "Do you think you're a celebrity?" "Top cat, cat's whiskers, VIP?" "Get lost, you imbecile! To fall in love, you need 1 female" "Another girl to walk down the aisle Take a hike, you moronic male" "Of all the girls in the world, you declared I was Miss Universe, no compare" "Why did you end up as spouse to some lunatic louse?" "You think you're the best of the best? Are you every girl's coolest quest?" "Take a leap, nutcase woman One madcap just to have fun" "One to marry traditionally Fly the coop, you fraud 420!" "Cakes you gobbled unrestrained plus daily coffee in gallons, I paid" "For some dash of a creep, coolly you washed your hands off me" "Are you God's gift to (wo)mankind? Are you 'pick of the litter' find?" "Tell me, Miss Wussy!" "Are you favorite of all, Mr Daffy?" "When I added kilos to my weight you went for a flat-belly mate" "I became pencil-thin and you chose a roly-poly chubby spouse" "My email password I selected as your name, you lunkhead" "Passwords are not hard to pick I'll change it, you yo-yo chick!" "Are you a 'wise guy' apple of everyone's eye?" "Hey... hey 'High society miss' Are you on the 'who's who' list?" "Hey... all-knowing almanac I'm also a Smart Alec" - Just 1 look, flat you fell? - 'Hi' and a date as well! - Solid check mate - Zip zap zoom heart rate - Was I cute yesterday? - Am I a fruit today? - Girl, take a different route - Total country brute! "Tuck in a royal feast!" "Quit the race, you drama queen! One to graze the pastures green" "Vamoose, you virus nonentity A wife to make babies plenty" "After the honeymoon, Miss Know-all you'll know your stupidity and bawl" "You'll name your daughter after me in your ex-girl friend's memory" "You think you're cream of the cream" "Are you every single girl's dream?" "Are you the leopard's spot? You think you're a big shot?" Have you got up at last? Open the door please I won't Get lost I've been waiting out for 3 hours Keep waiting I won't open the door You heard the flash news? Anand and Simran had a major world war last night It seems the wedding may be cancelled Are they getting divorced so soon? Even the elders fought Did they come to blows? That's what I dreamt Idiot Your parents were the ones who fought last night Got it? I won't bless them! You know very well it isn't my favorite, mom You can eat plateful of 'pongal' to your stomach's content Where the hell are these morons? Hi... I'm Nithya Hi... Gautam Hyderabad...? - Yeah - I thought as much I'm from Chennai Way we met was sheer serendipity Little embarrassing... but- It's okay, I feel a little relieved now - Good - Yeah Next time instead of dating a doctor or engineer... ...get yourself a good hearted guy You too Instead of finding girls who will hug you tight, find your Miss Right I got to go All the best Alright Take care, bye "Two hearts bound to one life That's how true love should be" "Take my hand in yours And you'll notice how I feel" I know why you attended that wedding You thought she'd immediately ditch her groom and elope with you? - No...! - Then why? Somehow something was nagging my heart You are a 100% verbal diarrhea party! When 1 just left your life another fell into your arms Sneaky thief! Very 1st meeting you drank and even sang a duet Have a ball! It wasn't a duet It was a tragic song Don't think you can mislead me by pulling the wool over my eyes! Continue with your story 'By the time I escaped from 1 shock in my life...' '...I got another shock!' Sir, you can meet the doctor now Doctor... my reports? Just got the reports Exactly what we wanted to avoid No... no... no I am sorry Come on, Gautam This is when you should be strong You shouldn't lose faith Doctor, how much longer? Maximum 2 to 3 years Can we just check just once more? Don't worry Scientists in USA have started research in this They'll definitely find some solution Why should this happen to me? Hair loss is so common Doctor, I haven't got married even once Don't worry Being bald is a mishap But that doesn't mean all men who are bald will make a mistake At times skinheads can shine to great heights What's the main reason for hair loss? Tension naturally Why are you tensed? Because of hair loss! Madcap! Why are you boys so obsessed about hair? Don't say 'you boys' Only we know you are a girl Hair loss is no big deal, dude Imitate Super star Rajini in the movie 'Sivaji' There is no record of girls who laugh too much And men who show off their crowning glory! How many God-men sport long hair and make a deep impact? You'll share my same fate Today, tomorrow or day after your head is bound to be... ...as smooth as a cricket ground Thank God, ladies don't have to go through this problem! Do you know you lose a strand of hair every time you speak the truth? That's why boys get bald faster Girls grow their hair real loooong! I'll go and take a leak Please go for God's sake Dude, repeat! Excuse me... move... move Why is she rushing into the gents' toilet...? Puking... all over again, huh? - Gautam...? - Exactly How come you are here? I should be the one asking you this question! This is for gents Urgent Welcome When did you come to Chennai? I came with my friends from Hyderabad You? That's my gang Nice For past 3 months your friend has tried to hook that girl in the red dress Didn't work out... right? How do you know that? I know to read faces! You need special talent for it You expect me to fall for all that crap? Yeah? Watch The girl in the corner Her name starts with the letter 'P' Pinky? Less hair more brains Anyone can guess that She is a big time rowdy She'll first swear and then speak! Right? I don't believe this! Hey Nithu! Sorry She's my classmate Long time no see When did you come? Yesterday I am staying at my uncle's place I'm here for a week Tomorrow let's go on a shopping spree Shucks! I have an important meeting I'm not in town tomorrow There must be so many other jobless fellows - Rope some sucker in - Well and truly caught Who? You! Me...? Not me, I have loads of work to do Don't you worry, Nithya He'll come for sure You know his job is a mind-blowing one His job urges and ensures entire Tamil Nadu is sleepless Good evening viewers In our mechanical existence... ...we are unable to perform to the optimum in any job For best action and satisfaction for those who face this problem... ...Guruji here will explain how Kujli + enhances your sex drive Good evening Whatever job you undertake should be a grand slam! No half measures What happens if you take the middle course? You'll be on a limp trip! Thank you They say barking dogs don't bite Why? A dog should either bark or bite It cannot do both at the same time But our people want to multi-task in 1 minute! Is that possible? Did you understand? Here is a list of making out tips... ...arranged by Guruji Peniseri Linganatha- Cut... cut... cut You're changing my job! What have I 'arranged'? You could use the word 'technique' or 'idea' Don't pronounce his name to suit his profession! He is Ponisseril Linganathan Repeat after me Peniseri Linganatha- God help me! Why can't you get your vowels in order? Stop piling on to me Your language skill is pathetic Who the hell employed you? So you are the cause? A small blunder was the cause Really? - When? - Not 'that' blunder This is a different kind of wrong doing Whenever she anchors for me... ...I've stuffed her with cotton where God has forgotten! Otherwise my Kujli+ and I will be the laughing stock Who is she? Did she find out? Why is she laughing like this? - Who is that girl? - She is... she is- You know her? Next time I could take her I meant as anchor in my show Will you leave now? What about her? Take her by all means Crap! Follow me Coming Your wife is really lucky Why? You have a doctorate in all techniques Way off the mark! In our TV channel we are assigned different shows on different days This time I was stuck with Mr Linganathan! Why say it as if you hated it? You were happy shooting it, right? Are you done? Now tell me where to go Shopping Only window shopping? I don't like anything here You should enter a shop, be clear, pick, bill, walk out Instead we settled down here as if we booked a room in a hotel Ladies' shopping is a big secret It's called psychology A reason for wasting time You need a separate degree for this Girls don't have a choice in deciding their names or which school to join What course to study? Which guy to marry? How many kids to have? What to name them? They have no choice in such important decisions Only while shopping we are left free to use our free will If we like it we buy If not look elsewhere Any doubts? Good Hey! Nice dress Are you shooting in this shopping complex? No, I came to shop for heroine's costumes Your heroine looks familiar My cousin's relative's- Oh! I remember Hyderabad wedding Drink party Car ride - Last year we saw this same girl - Both are 1 and the same chick - That's what he's also saying - You said she's your cousin! Just a sudden idea Idea? Rush affair? Shut up Pinky asked me to take her shopping when I met her in the pub Lay off! He has planned a well laid out time ahead Compromise, dude Compromise! What are you guys up to? Pah! Get lost Jingley Nellie You called me 'Nellie'? Don't embarrass me in front of her, I beg of you Next time I'll pay your pub bill for sure Hey Gautam! How's this? Soooper! So is that on you!! Come Why are we here? Surprise Are you related to the commissioner? Huh huh... no Do you also have a criminal background? Gautam Who knows?! Sir...! This little fellow looks smart Is he the commissioner's son? No, he is the commissioner! Commissioner...? - Sir - Yes - Thank you - We can go in, sir He won't even come up to my knees and he is the commissioner?! Please Come You may please ask your questions now Congratulations, commissioner sir Thanks to all of you How do you feel, sir? Great! Do you want to say anything, sir? 1 minute Is our city in the hands of this kid? Yes I will maintain strict law and order in the city He won't even reach up to the theater counter to buy a ticket! How will he be able to encounter a criminal? Sir, will you control the rowdies? I'll eradicate them completely Who is directing this episode? God Everyone must co-operate to keep the city clean He is suffering from blood cancer He might live maximum for another month People don't think God has defects But God creates people with defects I am a volunteer for 'Make a wish' I came to know about his dream last month I spoke to the DGP who agreed to this on humanitarian grounds His dream for a day Today his ambition has been fulfilled Maybe this might even be his last birthday Your health problem? No... no... please Enough of questions Please step out This way please Please don't write about this child Just write he was commissioner for a day for a good cause He doesn't know he has cancer This was not organized for publicity Please try to understand This is my humble request Will he live longer if we write about him? Whaaat?! What did you just say? Did you think before asking that question? If this news is telecast and he happens to watch it... ...how will he feel if he knows he has cancer and will die soon? Imagine his trauma He's just 10 years old Don't do this to hike up your channel rating I don't want your sympathy Humanity... empathy You are different today Different means? Means...? Not your usual self How? Somehow... something "My sweet honey bunny you filled my heart, every artery" "Benjamin bunny, like salt and sea my dear, you merged into me" "The whole world is in a dizzy tizzy, Flopsy, with your cotton paws fuzzy" "Heights unimaginable my petite-paws scale" "My kisses night and day as carrot-bait I'll sway" "My dearest bunny, Flopsy" "You fulfilled me, filling me" "My every action you'll pry and peer But the love-beats when will you hear?" "Your scent will do, I'm under your spell You don't have to spell it out as well" "It's a blazing bush fire in the jungle!" "My sweet honey bunny" "You are in every pore of my body" Shut up! "Softly... gently... my princess before I can try to caress" "Like a tempest and how you feasted on me... wow!" "9 months and 9 days will fly pronto I want 100 babies like you ditto" "Goodness gracious... amigo!" "My sweet honey bunny you filled my heart totally" "Benjamin bunny, like salt and sea you submerged into me, specially" "The whole world is in a dizzy tizzy, Flopsy, with your cotton paws fuzzy" "Heights unbelievable my pretty-paws scale" "My kisses night and day will be carrot-baits I'll display" - Want? - No, thanks Already the nuts you eat make you a nutcase sweet Satisfy your taste buds 100% What you just spooned in is 100 calories What you are about to eat is 750 calories If you eat all this and if someone calls you by your name... ...you can only turn your head like a fat slob of a table fan By the way excessive sweet creates hair loss! What happened? Hair will fall even if you eat under the table it seems Shut up, you idiot I saw someone I know Who? The couple over there Lady in the brown dress? Exactly What's her name? Chandramukhi! Now get lost Will she say 'Lakalakalaka' like the spirit in the movie? Pooh! Keep quiet You sit properly! Is this how playful you are always? This is not a game, madcap If they see me, they'll make mincemeat out of me What? They specialize in mincemeat Mincemeat? Isn't your name Chandramukhi? - Do you know this girl? - I don't know Aren't you Gautam's friends? Gautam...? Gautam is here Where? - Hello mom - Over there Did my sister call you? Ages since I saw her Sis...?! Terrific Wonderful It's a wonderful life in 'The pursuit of happyness' Are you real or am I dreaming? Sis, I was just talking about you to mom! And you are right in front of my eyes Gods must be crazy! Nithya, this is my dear sister Kamal Hassan hasn't retired as yet I swear, sis Look right there My bro-in-law Do you know who he's talking to? - Who? - Our mom! Who is this new chef you have appointed without asking me? My b-i-l? Have you stepped into chef Damodaran's shoes? In this house who else will take such liberties? Why did you brag that you know to cook? I showed off all my skills when I got married! Cooking also turned out to be one of many My bad time! I got trapped with your sister Oh! So you are already committed as a chef? B-i-l! Your 'Chandramukhi' Shall I dice the tomatoes for you? - Okay - 2 minutes Whatever you may say my sis respects you exclusively Naturally... hey, don't cut the tomatoes too small Small will be perfect I know what to do You stick to your work Don't you have a conscience? Like mother like daughter! Shall we share a beer? Don't get me into further trouble! Okay, fine What's special for lunch? Huh... mincemeat! I saw him with a girl in a restaurant Nithya...? - Maa...? - Nail him down - Steaming hot fritters ready - What's cooking here? How can a mother-in-law relax while her son-in-law sweats in the kitchen? Total waste buttering up your dear brother-in-law Your sister told me only about the 'mincemeat' Your b-i-l spilled the beans, from 'under the table' to your 'pretence call' How could you betray me like this? Did you tell every itsy-bitsy detail? Why not fill up all the blanks? Me going to Hyderabad, meeting Nithya... ...my drunken stupor dance - I won't blabber - Why not? Because you blurted it all now! Oh God! Ma, you look sooper in this sari Who is Sathya? Not Sathya, Nithya Okay, who is Nithya? I don't know who Nithya is What a sly fox! Tell me, Nithya Bad signal Nithya Menen, how are you? I saw your film You were awesome Hi Nithya Tell me now What are you doing? I don't understand Bengali You better talk to me in Tamil What are you doing? That's more like Tamil! Booze for breakfast, huh? Idiot! I've fixed myself a face pack Six pack abs?! Shut up and come to Cafe Coffee day I like the way you respect me Why don't you give me your mobile number? - We can catch up later - I use only a land line number No mobile phone?! Girls nowadays will even forget to breathe! But will they forget their mobile phone? Very true I lost 3 expensive mobiles That's why I decided to stick to land line What if you need to make a call urgently? How many gullible idiots own a phone? I'll borrow from one Gautam, give me your phone - You are that idiot? - In flesh and blood Good night - Thank you so much - For what? For introducing me to your friends It was your plan Nithya Uncle, 2 minutes Hi uncle They won't mind offering a lift just to take a girl for a ride! Is your uncle cursing me under his breath? Nothing of that sort I've told him in such a way he won't Oh! Very nice You glorified me as a good boy? Who will believe all these tales? Then? Whether I certify you as a good boy or a bad one... ...both spell disaster The male gender itself is a cause for trouble So...? That's why I've told him... ...you are gay! Imagining yourself as gay? See... very simple logic If I go out with girls uncle will say 'security problem' If I go out with boys he'll say 'something fishy' So I chose the in between That's why I said you are gay However late I get back, no problem Sorry... sorry... sorry Gautam... my bag Are you trying to signal something? Zip your lips and lie down Control yourself Every dog has its day You will get your turn Mister Chocolate One little Julie will come into your life And your tail will wag automatically So till then don't get tempted Good boy Ma, did you fall in love and get married? Go away now Then it's definitely 'yes' Tell me, mom Please tell me Please - What do you want me to tell? - Your love story Ours was an arranged marriage Then any love affair before that? Sorry... continue Like normal practice there was a 'meeting the bride' formality So did you play the veena and sing a popular film song? Not me, that is Sridevi in 'Meendum Kokila' Nothing like that happened I was in a half saree and I served coffee Then I stood quietly in a corner Then did my dad fall flat for you? Waaait! Suresh uncle had accompanied your dad Oh! Suresh uncle was dad's sounding board Just the opposite, your dad was Suresh uncle's sounding board! - What are you saying? - Suresh uncle was the groom! Very interesting break Tell me some more Suresh was almost fixed as my husband Pre climax Real tension Suresh always consults your dad, no? I know When Suresh asked your dad do you know what he said? What did he say? 'That girl looks half mad It is your call' he said He was bang on! That is the twist in the climax Trusting his best friend, Suresh uncle dropped me like a hot potato After some days... ...your dad was such a 'drama king' He pretended to be the martyr And he married me That's how much your dad loved me Dad, you are a rock star How did you feel 1st time you met dad? He is the right guy for you? I felt like lightning flashing in the sky My whole body was electrified Colorful butterflies fluttering their wings in my heart - Really? - Not at all All this will happen only in reel life Not in real life Do you know when you will identify your soul mate? When? When it touches the right chord here "Like a dimwitted dumbass" "Hey! As a lame-brain ignoramus" "Why did I become such a buffoon and a bum?" "My heart crushed into a ball why did I throw it once for all?" "Sky is a green lawn for me to graze on" "I search, research and peep Why my life changes deep?" "This isn't the earth I live in, I swear This isn't the 'me' within, I declare" "I lie glibly, I swear I'm good at it But you're not the cause for my habit" "This isn't the earth I live in, I swear This isn't the 'me' within, I declare" "I promise I am a seasoned liar You're not the reason, my dear" "Like a dullard, dud and dodo" "Hey! A senseless stupid fellow" "Life is like a story" "You can take it anywhere you want" "What you feeling baby, just come out and say it anyhow you want" "Gotta take it slowly" "Don't wanna miss the little things that come my way" "Wanna be your blessing and light up everyone today" "I'd have met a 1000 girls possibly Fallen in love with 6 or 7 plausibly" "My world never changed then Now how did it happen?" "Paper is the wall to write My nose is the pen so right" "Into the blue ink my nose I sink to write your name in total sync" "Your finger is my oxygen" "I think topsy turvy often" "To spoon feed in your ear I hasten" "This isn't the earth I live in, I swear This isn't the 'me' within, I declare" "I promise I am a seasoned liar You're not the reason, my dear" "Bring it to the floor, get your stuff and let's go" "I know you want some more of this mad beat yo" "It's the heat it's hot, it's the beat it's what" "Shake your body Shake your body" "Come, join the gang" "Fool... idiot... brainless" "Hey! King of dumbness" "Why did I become such a clown and a bum?" "My heart crushed into a ball why did I throw it once for all?" "Sky is a green lawn for me to graze on" "I search, research and peep Why my life changes deep?" "This isn't the land I love I'm sure This isn't I, me, myself either" "I can certify I lie 24x7x365 You're not the reason why" Nithya, do you know when you entered this special spot? Your social service... ...beats my mother's dedication hollow - Hi Gautam - Tell me, Nithya Come to the railway station I'll be there in 10 minutes Nithyaaaa! Why did you call me all of a sudden? My dad wants me back urgently Do you have to go today? Can't you avoid it? I'd love to stay a few days more But I have no other go I forgot... you wanted to tell me something? - Huh... uh... hmm - What is it, Gautam? Let me tell you, wait Remember... the 1st time we met No... the 2nd time we met No... no... no Forget that 3rd time we met 4th time also we met, right? Not then 5th time when we met You planned it all I thought as much Isn't that Gautam? Finally, man Awesome to see you If I talk to her for half an hour she talks only about you for 20 minutes 1st it was very boring In fact bugging too Then... you care for my Nithya so much I was bowled over! That's why I love you!! - Shameless - Why should I feel bad? 1st time I looked at your snap and immediately said 'yes' And we got engaged, right? Should not delay such things, dear What do you say, brother? Let me check about our tickets I enjoyed myself thoroughly in Chennai All thanks to you, Gautam Next time your turn to visit me in Hyderabad - Nithya? - Coming You wanted to say something I'll call you, then you can tell me Thanks for everything So Nithya said 'tata byebye see you' From stone age same story repeats itself When you buy a car, you check the model and its mileage But when you start dating a girl you don't verify if she has a lover or not? Stupid... stoopid fellows She has left you empty handed now I am fully equipped! It's a gun Don't play with it Only if I bump you off I can stop the wedding Give me the car keys - Take it out - Wait, I will Can't find it Aah! Here it is Don't play games Hey! I load only 2 bullets at a time, that gun is empty My dear boy, you must propose at the right time for your love to win Same way, a gun can't be fired without bullets You are a small boy Give me the gun Not safe in your hands Fooled you, eh? You take the gun from me again, you'll be a dead duck doomed Bloody! Continue What happened next? Tell me Dhoni is ultimate! Maaaa... don't miss Dhoni Gautam, get up Get up, da Go away, ma Can't you hear me? Get up now Awww! You are hurting me Don't run Gautam...! Wait... listen to me Lakshmi... no! You dare call me by my name! Why do you hit me like a school teacher? At your age why get into this? That's exactly what I am asking you too! At this young age what's bothering you? As if it is end of the world...? It is 10 years since your dad died If I had also mooned around in a corner... ...do you think you, me, your sister would have been like this today? When people close to our heart leave us behind... ...it is tough to bear the pain Some people keep mourning and crying all the time But others move on with all their sweet memories You are my son I don't have to tell you what to do Coffee? Given a chance your dad will telecast our wedding 'live'? This is too much Do you know Gautam is an expert in TV programming? But stupid fellow I don't know why he is behaving like this Raja, give me your phone To Gautam again? No reply No reply to any of my calls or my emails Acting pricey So irritating Relax... don't call Then you won't be irritated He's my friend, Raja What does that smile mean? Nothing, take it easy No, tell me Nithya, just because you are engaged, it doesn't mean... ...you should not like another person What? What are you saying? Ever since you returned from Chennai... ...you've sent some 20 messages and made 30 calls to Gautam So...? I am not doubting you Then you are keeping tabs 30 calls 20 messages? Look, all I am saying is... ...some introductions can turn into friendship While some friendship can even blossom into love We ourselves won't have a clue what can happen and when! Even I am not realizing that So... are you claiming I am in love with Gautam? No, I'm asking you to take a rain check After getting engaged to you... ...you think I may be in love with someone else? Actually... no I am saying- Wait... wait You are suspecting me before the wedding Suppose you get these doubts after we are married? Come on, Nithya Try to- Please You know what, Raja? If you don't believe in me this will not work out "Shut up your mouth Shhhh... pipe down!" "Shut up your mouth Shhhh... hold your tongue!" "Shut up your mouth Put the lid on... hush!" "Shut up your mouth Zip your lips... shush!" "Hey... you show-stopper Why this show of anger?" "Hey... son of a celebrity Hotshot, come close to me" "Hey you... lovable lad? Why are you hopping mad?" "Hey Mr Awesome, don't tease, come to me, will you please!" "Shut up your mouth Don't trumpet and tout" "Shut up your mouth Shhhh... no doubt!" "Lashes made of caffeine Lips of cocoa lustrous sheen" "Glam-doll as a cocktail mix earthly desires I offer to fix" "For you to feast on me you were created specially" "Cover a pot over your head Shut your gob or drop dead!" "Beauty is the reason for heartache by the gallon" "Oscillating heart is a doomsday dart" "Like waves wavering ebb and flow you swoon in my beauty head to toe" "Come, graze in close proximity You bask in my fire with vitality" "Without batting an eye lid, bang on to her beauty you are drawn" "Shut up your mouth Don't blabber and brag about!" "Shut up your mouth" "My heart is scarred In the same spot marred" "I became a beast Why is that such a feat?" "My job is to kiss your hurt To paradise I'll transport" "As a needle into your skin I'll inject joys to multiply within" "I'll relieve your pain with pain You'll re-live pleasure again" "Shut up your mouth Hey! Let your body shout" "Hey... handsome hulk Why are you awestruck?" "Hey heartbreaker of a guy! My eyes are the reason why" "Hey sweet talker intoxicated Let yesterday be deleted" "Hey charmer I declare in your breath I'm the air" "Shut up your mouth Zip your lips... shush!" 'Few weeks later...' Why have we come to a veterinary hospital? Look over there Look 'at what' over there? My dear dear Kavya Doctor for pets and all beloved beasts She seems very familiar?! "For you to treat me you were made specifically" "Shut up your mouth" Enough of your reactions 6 weeks dating Most happening - How do you do it? - All thanks to Chocolate I can also adopt a pet dog Hi guys Hey Chocolate! How is he now? Has the infection lessened? Continue the medicine for another week Gautam, will you come home on Friday definitely? I will be there for sure, sweetie Thanks Madam, phone Get them coffee or tea Hold him I'll be back Telugu girl? You never told me! What? Good heavens! Your quota overflows Nithya was your target And now a Telugu vet! You are an animal, man Then what happened? Then one day in Chengelpet- 'Red Cross Society organized a flood relief camp and I went...' '...to cover the news for my TV channel' Take this I'll be right back What a surprise?! Nithya... Nithya? It has been decades since I saw you last I carried your bags after shopping, right? You forget your friends so easily You call yourself my friend! Did it occur to you to reply to just 1 e-mail or phone call? You know what? Just forget it Nithya... Nithya Come on, Nithya Tell me, what should I do now? 'Whatever job you undertake should be a grand slam!' 'No half measures' 'If you take the middle course you'll be on a limp tri-' 'Appalam' cannot be eaten whole It has to be broken, right? But if already broken will we relish it? Only if we ourselves do the job will we enjo- I am so happy How is Raja? Why didn't you invite me for your wedding? Raja and I broke up I am sorry How? That's a long story It just did not work out But no regrets That's fine Don't worry Whatever is already written for whomever will only happen Lucky fellow he escaped Wonder who is next? - Stupid - Come on! It has been ages you know since I laughed or spoke freely like this You should always keep laughing Do you know how beautiful you look when you laugh Enough... your compliments choke me Time just flies when I talk to you Wow...! Oh no! What's the time? 11:30? Looks like it will be very late by the time I reach the city Where are you staying? Not yet decided Okay, I've decided Come in quietly Be comfortable Sleep, sweet dreams I will see you in the morning Nithya, do you want any booze? Hey, stupid! Good night! Hiiiiii! Who are you? Come on, cutie! What is this? 'Good morning! Going out Will be back in an hour' 'Stay in the room' 'If my mom sees you we'll be in a soup' 'By the way his name is Chocolate' Where are you, Gautam? I need to rush to the bathroom Chocolate, show me the bathroom Good morning Bathroom? Straight and left Mom...? Tell me Has she got up? Don't know when she woke up But she came out of the room on all fours! Poor thing! You don't know her She'll sell you and me for a king's ransom! You are too hard on her She looks very innocent That's her glorious trap! If you fall for it that's the end of the story I'll take care Sorry, aunty Gautam is not at fault It was quite late last night That's why without your knowledge- Nithya, Gautam told me last night itself about you He told you last night? Such an idiot! Sorry aunty, but he is really an idiot 100% And this is his bosom pal! Is this you? Gautam is ditto you Only in looks But his nature is ditto his dad And that is what troubles me Why, aunty? Isn't he a cool chap? You tell me As far as I know he's real cool Very jovial Not finicky But very sensitive Tell... tell me more When I'm with Gautam time just flies I heard about it 1st time when you met in Chennai you painted the city red, I believe? Did he tell you? So embarrassing This is too much He has told you all my secrets Now you must share Gautam's secrets with me Gautam's secrets? Oh my goodness! How did you handle him, aunty? I love his mischievous streak - Come, let's eat breakfast - Let me take a shower Gents' toilet is on the left He told me that too! Aunty, when Gautam gets back, please will you close your eyes for 2 minutes? - Why, what will you do? - I'll hit him black and blue - Permission granted - Thank you, aunty I like it, Gautam Your house, your mom, Chocolate, I reeaaaally like it! That's Kavya His girlfriend He intends talking to her parents and fixing the wedding date soon Mom, where's Nithya? - She left - Where? She said some urgent work in Hyderabad and left Didn't she call you? Is she mad or what? Why come and then why vanish into thin air like this? Is Hyderabad nearby? Let me call- Oh! I erased her phone number I'll go mad because of her "How much worse can it get?" "This 'bolt from the blue' regret?" "Love's catastrophe?" "How will I face this calamity?" "Isn't this misery enough for me" "Why did I mess up my life into a question mark of strife?" "My tears that touch my toes beg forgiveness filled with woes" "However my heart hard and dense is having fun at my expense" "Won't this unholy mess do?" "Love's folly and my Waterloo How will I live without you?" "Why did I make my life a riddle? How do I solve this insane puzzle?" I've booked rooms for your friends Let me know if you need anything else You were right - About what? - About me I am mad I deserve this What happened, Nithya? My relationship with Gautam Didn't you ask me to check? I felt that way then Then, now and always That's the only truth Raja, I'm in love with Gautam Hey! Congrats Why are you upset about this? Did you tell Gautam? He is marrying Kavya it seems - Who is Kavya? - His fiancee All because of you Instead of saying check you could've said it is confirmed It's so late now Why was that idiot Gautam in such a tearing hurry? Couldn't he have waited till I expressed my love for him? Sorry once again Why? I disturbed your function Shall I leave now? Thanks Bye Gautam, have you started? Yes, just about leaving Everyone is waiting here for you I have convinced my parents with great difficulty to meet you Please... make it fast I am leaving right now I am wearing your favourite blue shirt Your entire family will accept me, just wait and see I'm leaving right away 'Very jovial Not finicky' 'But very sensitive' 'When I'm with Gautam time just flies, aunty' Bye, ma Gautam - What? - 1 minute Quick, I'm late as it is Gautam, is this what you really want? Want what? Gawd! Hello! I am half way through Can't you hear the traffic? Bye, ma I'm just around the corner Gautam! Why are you so late? Wow! You look soooper in this white dress Sweets for my sweetie! Please, Gautam Somehow impress my dad Trust me I'll take care Come inside Finish all the work I don't want anything pending Father, Gautam Welcome, young man Kavya has talked nonstop about you Happy Telugu new year, uncle Didn't I tell you? Kavya's friend Gautam This is my friend Sundaram You work in a TV channel, right? Correct, uncle Ma, come here 1 minute I'll be back That's Kavya Isn't she very pretty? Ma, this is Gautam Greetings, aunty It would be nice if you can offer him coffee or tea Kavya, come with me Gautam, you carry on Let me introduce you to everyone He seems very familiar 'Compromise!' 'What are you guys up to?' 'Jingilee Nellie' You called me 'Nellie'? What is he doing here? I enjoyed your TV program Kujli plus Madan, when did you come? - Happy new year - Same to you This is Kavya's friend The one I told you about He is my childhood friend, Madan You seem very familiar I too feel the same Is that so? Wise men think alike and...! Aren't you Nithya's uncle? Uncle, I'm Nithya's friend How could you forget me? How many times I've dropped Nithya at your place? The one who used to drop her at home daily - Gautam...? - Yes...! That same Gautam? Hey hey...! Yes! Confirmed gay! Someone tells some rubbish And how am I to blame? That gay business was all for fun What's fun, Gautam? My dad wants us to score 10/10 in compatibility And the very 1st point should go for a toss?! If someone calls you 'gay' for fun how can you keep quiet? Look what a mess it has got us into I was put in such a spot You don't seem to understand my problem Oh! Your problem? This is the difference between you and me? I think of this problem as 'ours' You differentiate it as 'my problem' No point in us being married if you can't think of 'my' as 'ours' I am sorry, Kavya This is not going to work out Really? What? Are you 'one of them'? What is that look for? I'm not that kind Neither am I My bad time Nithya's joke to her uncle boomeranged on me You better keep your distance I'll shoot you otherwise Stop the vehicle I cannot - Stop it - Why? I need to step out, urgent Why is it never ordinary for anyone in the world... always 'urgent'?! Really urgent Stop, man - I won't stop - Then I will jump out Stop... stop... stop I can't hold on... I just can't - Get down - Untie me Don't think you can escape This gun is loaded I'll shoot you... beware! Tsk... tsk What? Take it off Crap! I can't be unzipping you Untie me for God's sake Come here Don't tsk-tsk me Say it loudly Stupid fellow Don't dilly dally Empty it fast Driver, stop the car Excuse me, sir, is there any short cut to Tirupati? Go straight Take the next right which is a mud road - You'll land up in Tirupati - Thank you, sir Getting married in Tirupati? Love marriage? - Yes, sir - I like it All the best How long will you pee? - I'm coming - Come fast I think you have forgotten something Achacho! What did I forget? No need You trust me now? Not you... this gun So 'Kavya matter' took a turn for the worse What is the next scene? Carry on Hello...? Sorry, Mr Gautam Your mother suffered a massive heart attack She did not survive even till the hospital We could not do anything I am sorry "I'm in search of a world new Let me go, don't pursue" "Dissolved memories on my lashes' tip Don't follow me, my son, let me slip" "A bud that bloomed in my womb dearly I leave behind in my lonely journey" "I want to start my life afresh Somewhere in the distance I'll refresh" "I'm in search of a whole new world Don't follow, your steps with-hold" "Dissolved memories on my lashes' tip Don't follow me, my child, let me slip" "Your scribbles while I nursed You made them blessings instead" "Seated on my shoulder you made me feel taller" "Your eyes are the best ever No one can match or compare" "Alcove of your eyes tear-filled Where did I go, leaving you stifled?" "Right next to God I'll be protecting you diligently" "I'm leaving to another place Life without me you have to face" "A whole new world I'm stepping into Son, let go, I'll watch over you" Nithya, listen to me Nithya, where are you going? Will you tell me or not? At least you ask her Dad, I am going to Chennai Nithya...? NITHYA...! Hi I reached Chennai only yesterday I came to know about aunt's demise I am really sorry - How are you? - I am fine You? Sorry, Gautam I couldn't convince them My relatives also opposed strongly Why rake all that now? My parents had made their own plans for my marriage They used our tiff as a convenient excuse And they decided without asking me I wanted to tell you after my marriage Are you happy now or not? That's what matters Thanks, Gautam We first met as friends So our friendship should continue like this always Sure, Kavya Coffee? You'll make the coffee? No, thanks I'll make it myself Okay Kitchen is that way Okay... okay, you go and freshen up A superb cup of coffee will be ready for you Hi Chocolate How are you? You, me and Gautam will live happily together Okay... happy? Yes...? Sorry Wrong address It's okay Why ask her opinion? We'll do as you suggested Very happy to hear you say so, we also agree Look, Nithya is here Doesn't she look prettier face to face? Ravi uncle Anu aunty Hello uncle Hello aunty Come and sit with us This is our son's photo If you agree we will take you with us right now Your parents can come as guests to the wedding! - Take a look - Not necessary, aunty My parents' decision is good enough for me In my life they will never make a wrong decision for me I'll see you later Imagine, finding such a girl in these modern times! Nithya, you seem to be very happy What's the problem? Did you meet Gautam? What happened? Gautam is married now Chocolate What are you fiddling with? You've started eating books now Whose diary? 'Gautam, I thought we shared just a good friendship' 'Only after talking to Raja I realized I love you' 'Only when I came to express my love to you, I found out...' '...you are in love with Kavya' 'But still, I love you' Hello? Can I speak to Nithya? She has gone out Where has she gone? She is getting married tomorrow morning Shucks! Not just run of the mill and ordinary Extra-ordinary twists in your life, I say! How did you take all this in your stride? At least now understand I must stop that wedding somehow Otherwise my life is ruined Your life... big deal! First she will fall for you Then she'll get engaged to Raja Today she will marry a totally new Mr X And you claim she is your life! Stupid... stoopid fellows One more word from you maligning Nithya...! Oh-o! Emotion, huh? Don't show your macho image there But threaten me here! What will you do if I talk ill of Nithya? Hey! Where... where are you? Where is my gun? Hello...! I made a mistake I should have killed you right in the beginning It's not too late now Anyone can shoot this gun Shall I pull the trigger? Hey... hey! I know you are a scoundrel K.Bal warned me on day one Who is K.Bal? As if you don't know him One who asked me to kidnap you Nithya's father Yov! Nitya's father is Narayanan Not K.Bal? Not any bloody ball! Didn't you plan to elope with K.Bal's daughter? No... no... NO Idiot... stupid... stupid Then who is he? Relax, sonny This seems to be XXL twist! Somehow I seem to have kidnapped the wrong boy! I've never made such a silly mistake in my 15 years of kidnapping service! Service... do you possess a doctorate in kidnapping? If you are not 'him' then who are you? Gautam Relax, Chucky You bungled somewhere I am Varthi Chakravarthi You are not worthy of even a name! You don't even know to kidnap properly What can I do? If boys like you fall in love girls' fathers assign me to kidnap How many can I kidnap? Do you have any clue of the work hazards in this? You refuse to sympathize with my plight... stoopid! Wonder how it got goofed up Why were you standing near that car 1111? Where did I go wrong? What the hell did you do? It's smoking like a 'tandoori' stove Glutton! You can only think of food - How long will it take? - Don't know Stop... stop... stop Who is he? Sir, I have to go to Hyderabad urgently Emergency, sir Can you drop me? - Get in - Thank you, sir I'll go in this car Follow me quickly Don't worry, you go We'll catch up Okay, sir Driver, you also get down Bro, 2 tea please Okay, sir Saw the car and the target Consider your job done - Aiyo...! - Now what? If K.Bal knows I kidnapped the wrong chap... ...I won't get the money and he will kill me for sure If Nithya gets married I'll kill you myself Wait... wait My phone is ringing Boss - Hello, who is this? - Who the hell are you? - What does it matter who I am? - What do I care who you are? Where the hell have you kidnapped my daughter to? Don't raise your voice If I don't get my Nithya you'll also be a corpse Who is Nithya? Where is Chakravarthi? I killed him long ago Shut your gob and phone Why did you say you have killed me? If I tell him you are here, he'll send 50 of his thugs to kill you right now Super, my dear groom Hey! Who the heck is your groom? I meant bridegroom! You got into this mess all because of me I have to set it alright for you Only you will marry Nithya Yes... hey... hey... hello Stop... stop Oh okay! Right... right Auspicious time is nearing Bring all the items for the wedding ritual What happened? What if Nithya is married before we reach? Sometimes such things happen What did you say? How dare you! Cool... cool... cool Madcap Who is the madcap? I am the madcap, I say something stupid, shove my feet into my mouth! I'll shove the gun in We shouldn't be like guests eat sweet, savory and go See some unsavory character you must scare them away Trying to scare me?! Sir, why so many henchmen in a wedding? Who was killed last week in Vijayawada? Bhima Rao The groom is very close to him That's why all this security Idiot! Where is this Gautam? He left hours before we did Where is Gautam? Here I am, Gautam - Who is he? - Software engineer Lost my job in the recession Please, 1 job Any job is okay You go inside and do your job How do we get hounded by all these losers! - Bro... oh... you! - Bad penny back again If I go inside, everyone is calling me a drunk They are avoiding me Do you expect them to treat you like a VIP? Get me a VIP job then - Please, bro - Get lost How do they make a beeline only to us? Before Gautam gets here shall we kidnap the bride? Kidnap the brid- Very good job You'll be fixed, bro I'm already fixed Confirmed Kidnap job, salute! - Ouch!! - Dai dumbass What if he blabbers about the kidnapping? Who'll take a drunkard's gibberish seriously? Let's go in and see what's up - Why are you so serious? - She's so beautiful Can't you be a little shy? Shut up! Don't yell at me Give me some respect There are 112 criminal cases pending against me you know Did you bungle all of them like this? Jump the gun case! By just hearing my name you know they will pee in their pants Like how you trembled at the name of K.Bal I'll make you toothless Brag pot! You are degrading me way too much, dude If you open your mouth...! Cool, Chucky... cool "For 100 years and more this couple should live" So you are the bridegroom? I swear you won't get married - You won't get married - Uncle, what is he saying? Will you stop the wedding because you didn't like the food? You are dead today He's getting beaten for deriding the food If they know we intend kidnapping the brid- Looks like a King Kong gang Who are you? Bride's side or groom's side - Groom's side - Bride...! What does it matter whose side, sir? It's the wedding that matters We know all that Where are you from? - Chennai - Bangalore What does it matter which city, sir? It's the wedding that matters - Uncle - Yov! Sir, can I meet Nithya for just a few minutes? No boys allowed when the bride is dressing up She's a GIRL! You are passing off Saet's son as a daughter?! I am a girl Look, she can even feel shy! So she is a girl Your bob cut fooled me Boy-girl, only you can go in My slipper will talk! Before that I'll hit you Who is this joker? Knife and rope are ready I've also fixed a dark room like you see in Mysskin's films Next step is kidnap Proceed, my boys - Where's the liquor carton? - In the Tasmac shop - Who is that big-mouth? - I don't know Ouch! Are you playing games with my life? 'I love you I'm not married' Gautam should have told me this, right? Stupid! I've agreed to this wedding my parents arranged and I'm decked up like this Are you asking me to jump? I will kill all of you What shall we do now? Gautam isn't married as yet, dad Pinky told me just now Pinky... Pinky? In some confusion... I tho- I thought he was married Sorry Can I go, dad? Please - Go - Thanks, dad Is the wedding over? Not yet You saved your skin... go - Hey! Gautam - Now what? My gun I'll give you Next time bring a photo before you kidnap anyone Don't get fooled by a number plate, madcap Shut up, madcap Hey... hey By the way, remember you wished a man for his wedding in Tirupati? He is the one you should have actually kidnapped! K.Bal's son-in-law You and your Chucky bragging! 'Getting married in Tirupati?' 'Love marriage?' '- Yes, sir' '- I like it' 'All the best' Stupid... stupid... stupid This is the height of stoopidity! Young man...? This way Where is the bride's room, little one? Upstairs Oh... lady's sari Oh! Sorry Window sari Kidnap started Okay Nithya... Nithya Bring the bride Nithya, open the door What does your father do? Farming, sir That means fishing! Looks like his father is one of us - Nithya jump - Nithya jump...? Oh gawd! What is she telling you? Listen... Nithya is not opening the door Bride is missing...? Let's go and check Hold on to these hooligans Nithya...? Move aside Nithya madam Open the door If they can bang on the door so hard I can't imagine what they'll do to me! Hello, friend Please... excuse me If you let go, I'll fall Has the bride been kidnapped so fast? Kidnapped? You are in the dark? Bride's friends from Chennai have come to kidnap her Oh! They are knocking at the door NO! Don't open the door Who are you? Where is the bride? 1 minute Drunken dog! Kidnaaaaap Why don't you listen to me, Chitra? I don't have the money right now My plan got screwed up I'll re-plan and get loads of money for you Didn't you promise to take me to Kalyan jewellers? - I agree I said so - What happened now? Uncle, is this your car? If I talk about jewelry- Will you drop me in Chennai, please? 'Will you take me or not?' 'If so when?' 'Don't give excuses like a broken record' My dear wifey, I'll myself buy jewelry for you from Kalyan Please catch 1 minute Come, madam Thank you Thank you, uncle - Where is the girl? - Tell us How many times to ask? - Where is the bride? - Tell us now ONE MINUTE! Speak one at a time Clarity Is this a dubbing theater to voice-check for clarity! Are you a sound engineer? No, art department Sir, I'm a software engineer Don't touch me Who the hell are you? What are your names? Gautam What is your name? Gautam Why are you repeating his name? My name is also Gautam Lift and see Not down under! Stomach... ID card Unbelievable He's also Gautam! - Nice name, no? - Beauty...! Tell us the truth now Where is the bride? Sir, actually this is not a kidnap case One minute This kidnapping is perfectly planned Once committed I won't betray my job - What work? - Don't know This won't work Call the police Yes, call him Inspector Duraisngam He knows the Inspector it seems Of course I do Not just me Everyone knows him Actor Sivakumar's son Suriya who acted in 'Singam' "Singam... Lion king... Gautam" I have no connection with him or the kidnap No connection? Yov! Moustache Come here Question 1, did you invite both of us for the wedding? No Question 2, why was he in the bride's room? Question 3...! Hey! Do I have to ask all the questions myself? Why don't you take over? Am I not right, friend? - Pooh! - Thank you very much How many of you are involved? Total 6 including me 6 of you? Where are the other 4? 1-2-3-4-right or wron- Hey! Are you guys here? - Caught red handed! - Who kidnapped the bride then? They are the kidnappers Brothers and single sister Plan success Don't spare anyone Tie them also Hey girl! Take off your jewels Please drop me in Chennai After that you can take all this Take off your jewels right now I'll drop you right here Remove, right now Don't cry It's always like this Whenever I want to see Gautam a problem will crop up always Gautam...?! He won't know to tell Nor will I be able to tell 1st time I went to express my love Kavya's photo came between us Kavya? 2nd time Kavya was in his house with the wedding chain flashing round her neck What was I supposed to think? Fine, I'm destined to be jinxed Kill me But after that kill Gautam Gautam... Kavya? What will he do without me, poor fellow? Nithya...? How do you know my name? Nithya... Gautam... Kavya? Kavya... Gautam... Nithya! Who are you? "Southern realm of the Pandya clan Chariots grace the roads with elan" I'm your BIG brother "He came like a sprightly deer Who could have hit him, I wonder?" - Tell us - Right Now 1 MINUTE All of us are caught now, right? What are you waiting for? Pounce, pummel and punch Who the hell is she? Nithya... listen to me, please Nithya, don't shoot Baby, if you return my gun I can leave right now? Okay... okay, your wish - Shut up - Take your own sweet time You know what I'm thinking Tell me Let me... let me tell you Don't mumble 1st time actually I thought You- - Blurt it out, boy - Allow me to tell, man I thought I'll tell you in the railway station But Raja messed it up big time Later with Kavya I agree I made a mistake You never shared that episode of your 'miss-take' with Kavya?! Keep quiet, man This man is a pain What I'm trying to say is It was my mistake to think I was in love with Kavya You won't be clear about all this Phone... phone Excuse me, please Chitra, you have a knack of calling me at the wrong time My friends derided you They said you weren't good looking Their opinion Not my feelings In my eyes you are- Donkey! Why did I marry you? 1st kill that fellow 'Pain in the wrong place' Sorry, my wifey I'll speak softly You go ahead - Tell me now - I will I will but I can't say it like in the movies scene by scene When I first met you I didn't have any feelings When I missed Kavya and Simran I thought I was the problem But I realize now... ...I didn't love them at all I imagined it Gawd! How do I explain it to you? When I see you talking to any guy I burn with anger inside I feel like impressing you with whatever lies possible When you wear short dresses I feel like giving you 1 tight slap Imagine I went to the extent of stopping your wedding I had no clue I could be so jealous and possessive Until I met you This is love for sure Confirmed Forget all this I am crazy about you I can't live without you That's the truth Call it what you want I'll take care of you well I swear on my mom Chitra, you are just not listening to me You are so stubborn Listen to me, please Tell me those balance 3 words I... You... Shall we get married? You promised you'd change our baby's diapers yourself How can I do all that crappy job? You utter one more word I'll slice you to pieces Shut up Stupid What shall I do to him? Kill him Hey... hey... Nithya! How could you tie me up! Uncle has brought us together Poor man, let him go This madcap? If we untie him, he'll kidnap some other wrong chap! Who is the nutcase? You are...! Go home, dear man Your wife is waiting for you My wifey and I are very tight What do you know about us, stoopid? Who is stupid? Me... me only Okay, sing a song I cannot - No... I'll shoot you - No... no... no - Do what I say - Please sing, uncle "Quit the race, you drama queen! One to graze the pastures green" "Vamoose, you virus nonentity A wife to make babies plenty" "After the honeymoon, Miss Know-all you'll know your stupidity and bawl" "You'll name your daughter after me in your ex-girl friend's memory" "You think you're cream of the cream" "Are you every single girl's dream?" "You think you're the best of the best? Are you every girl's coolest quest?"
