 

                        Woman is the future of man Produced by Marin Karmitz Ahn Byungjoo, Choi Seongmin Yoo Jitae, Sung Hyunah Kim Taewoo Cinematography- Kim Hyungkoo Lighting - Lee Kangsan Sound- Ahn Sangho Editing - Ham Sungwon Music - Jeong Yongjin Recorder- Live Tone Producer- Lee Hanna Screenplay and director- Hong Sangsoo - Quite a climb... - Kind of Luckily, the bus stop isn't far - How are you keeping? - We're on a hill Cab drivers get lost up here The bus is better Yes Is this your house? It's beautiful! Sorry to have brought you so far No, don't apologize This way, I get to see your place That's true Actually the house is a real mess my wife wants us to go elsewhere - Do you mind? - All right - So, how are you doing? - Good I have a present for you A present? It's not much Now you're here you may as well take a look You're a rich man now! My wife is a very determined woman We've settled here for good but a 200-million-won mortgage the loans from relatives... It will take forever to pay that off Well, you've certainly changed I haven't The present that I mentioned - Is this snow, the first... - It's a little late this year You can walk on it It's beautiful I kept the dog off it You even have a dog - Walk on it? - If you'd like to All right It will look like someone walked just one way When you went in and back out - Shall we go? - All right Let's go - This is great - You don't have a mobile? - I got rid of it - Why? I've forgotten my wallet I'll be right back I'll wait here - Who is it? - It's me, Open up - Munho? - Yes Munho, is that you? Just a second - Thank you, Good-bye - Thanks - Thank you - Good-bye - What was university like there? - Hm... How can I put it... It's a good university they all say so On the staff, they have one particularly good lecturer I took his class in the end Know what he said about my film? That it's a "gem" A "gem"? What's that? A "gem"? A precious stone A precious stone? Isn't the word "treasure"? Treasure can mean stones too But a lot of them Gem is one stone and "treasure" is a lot You were wise to change your main subject You're a smart one - Smart, me - Every university has a film department Dozens have opened in the last few years University? I don't want to teach I want to make films You're right Make films So, you're not going to teach? Well... if a university in Seoul asks me to why not? I need to making a living Exactly, all these film students what will they do? Film isn't like Korean or English It will be hard for them I pity them I'll write a screenplay first I'll need time to adjust here This will make you laugh When I went back for my wallet my wife was smoking in the bathroom Does she smoke? Usually, no! I caught her red-handed Really? But I didn't say anything Before, I'd have kicked up a fuss Now... I see her less as a woman or a wife and more as a human being I tell her, "Live your life!" Something like that You're kind to her There again, it's best not to smoke When she sleeps by our kid she looks so beautiful I believe that proves that she's a good wife True, you made a good match You're lucky to have met her By the way, if you hug my wife again you'll hear from me! What do you mean? Remember when we visited you in the USA you hugged her 'American-style' - I didn't say anything... - Hey, that's just... I didn't hug her... - That's hello - Shut your mouth! Just don't do that! You're not a Yankee! Chili pepper noodles - Here you are - Just a second, please - I'm sorry but... - Huh? I make films Are you interested in acting? - Films? - Yes I'm a director I'm looking for real people to play parts in my film Not for a documentary but for a real film I don't think so Why not? Don't I seem honest? You have an interesting face That's why I'm insisting I'll give you my number You'll think about it? No, really I couldn't do it I'll leave you now Come here Is something wrong? What did he say? He's a director - He wants me to be in a film - What kind of director? - I don't know - He's a director? - So he says - He asked you to act? The idea of it! You lack ambition That's why life disappoints you Look, he's watching you Hello What are you doing here? What's up? Are you well? If you're not busy, we can talk... I'd like to but... Is your military service over now? You didn't know? I didn't know So, how are you? Why don't we go somewhere to talk? What about? I'm supposed to meet a friend You'll meet your friend This won't take long, come on I just got out of the army You really don't have a minute? I know but... Can't it wait a day? I have to meet a friend Sunhwa! Look at me! It's me! Snap out of it! Don't do this to me I'll bring you back in no time Quickly, then Why do you always keep me waiting? Sorry What's wrong? Have you been waiting long? It's a beautiful day Sorry, I'm late again What's the matter? Yesterday... I was kidnapped I'm really sorry I was kidnapped and taken by force to Puchon By whom? A guy I know He turned up out of the blue He found me after he got out of the army He knew we see each other He knew what time I go to the hospital He was waiting for me Who is this guy? We used to be in the same club at high school And then... Well? What happened? In Puchon, he took me to a hotel And there, he raped me - Are you okay? - I'm okay... - Not too hot? - It's ok That's enough I'm making love to you to cleanse you You understand? I'll really be clean again? Of course I'll make you clean You'll be clean again - You understand? - I want to be clean Make me clean - Why are you here, Dad? - You're here? - You mustn't smoke - Just one cigarette - Is there time? - Yes Remember what I said You must be both daring and reliable - Yep - You understand? I understand What are you doing here? - Hello, sir - You're here! - How are you, sir? - Good - Why are you all alone? - I need to talk to you What about? I'll leave you two to talk Don't be too long We'll catch up You can talk inside We won't be long Okay - I have to talk to you - What's the matter? One thing bothers me Sunhwa should be here to see you off to the USA Sunhwa? She knows you're leaving You have to see her You cant just leave like this! What's it to do with you? That's what you had to tell me? I told her to come here It's the right thing to do What? She's on her way She'll be here soon Come here Take care You'll wait for me, right? I'll call you Look after yourself, won't you? I'll wait I'll wait for your call All right Why are you crying? Don't be silly! All right, I'll stop crying I love you Me too Munho! Do you remember Sunhwa? How could I forget her? Right What's she doing these days? I don't know How could I know? That's right It's been ages You want to know? I heard she runs a bar in Puchon What? A friend said he saw her in Puchon It's probably true Why would he lie? - You said you didn't know - You wanted to know She was working in that kind of place when she was a student She dropped out of university Really? Why? I don't know I don't think she's a waitress anymore She runs a bar in a hotel How did she come to that? I wonder I can't believe it... - It all started from then - What? These so-called "club rooms" Half the girls are students More than two thirds even! I see A real job is tough and doesn't pay well The myth of virginity means girls have a high price on them Koreans are too fond of sex They have nothing better to do - There's no real culture - Right Excuse me I have to fetch my photos - They're already done? - It's an express service Can I have a quick word with you? Yes I teach Western art I was wondering... would you like to model for me? Model for you? Yes, I teach at the university You can trust me I'm looking for non-professional models I see... However, I must warn you you'd have to pose nude Could you do that? No, I couldn't Because of the nudity? I understand Let me give you my number Think about it You'd make an excellent model No, really I couldn't do it I'll leave you now Come here Is something wrong? What's he saying? That he's a teacher - He wants me to model - A teacher needs a model? - He's a painter - Is he really? Apparently - That's all he said? - I'm not going to model for him They don't look like close friends But they're knocking the drink back That's why they talk such rubbish You think so? - Hello - Hello Go on in Are you going out? We won't be long Good-bye - Where shall I put this? - Over there What is that? An imaginary being What beautiful flowers! In autumn when I see chrysanthemums I feel that they have bloomed just for me I see They're really beautiful aren't they? By the way... May I call you by your first name? I'm sorry? If you want All right Stop it! Not so fast! Get off me! What did I just say? I told you to stop! I didn't understand Was it unpleasant? Couldn't you have just held me? Men are all alike If you'd simply held me I could have let myself go I'm sorry It's my fault You're all animals You and that bastard just want sex Real animals! - Hello - Hello You're here? Do you know the bride? The groom is an old friend - Are you close? - Yeah This morning, I was in a cafe and I called Sunhwa She said she'd be at the wedding I was coming anyway so it was a chance to see her - That's a good idea - Shall we fetch her? Will you do that for me? Thank you She's over there Sunhwa! Congratulations You look so pretty They're intrigued The groom is a friend... - It's a pretty wedding - The bride's pretty too I find you much prettier Don't exaggerate - Seen the chrysanthemums? - I see They attract the bees Are you staying? Are you going to the reception? - Aren't you? - No I have to go to see my tutor Really? - Do you go there often? - No I'm sorry you can't come Could I see you tomorrow? - What day is it tomorrow? - What day? - It's Sunday - That's right All right, let's meet tomorrow - Really? - Really! Thank you You're not using my first name? I don't really feel like it - Did it go well yesterday? - Yes, sit down Your face is puffy - It is? - Yes, very puffy Do you feel all right? Yes... What's that new hairstyle? Is it horrible? No Isn't anyone else home? My father's in Japan My mother will be home late Your father's in Japan? He goes there about ten times a year And your mother? When he's away she comes home late There's no one else here? My little brother will be home late too You needn't worry about him It's better when there's no one else Well, there isn't What's that? That? It's just for fun What's inside it? What is it? - Are they stones? - Pebbles Are they for your work? No, It's to toughen my fist - Toughen your fist? - My fist I punch it every morning and evening You do that? To make me stronger Every morning and evening? Yes, Like this Your skin is so soft Can I moan? Go ahead You can Your moaning sounds so sweet Is that good? Very good Sorry I came too soon Are you always like that? What? Your legs are hairy I haven't shaved them for a while Shaving makes the hair thicker I didn't know that women shaved their legs True, it has grown I hear there's even more snow in Kangwon province It snows often Shall we go and see Sunhwa? - Now? - Yep Ask your friend for the address - You want to go to Puchon? - Since it's snowing... Let's go and see Sunhwa! - You go I'm not going - Why not? I enjoyed drinking with you but we're pretty drunk now So what? Your face isn't even flushed I have some papers to mark Sorry Go by yourself Why not? How can you treat an old friend like this? You go! My wife doesn't feel well - I didn't tell you before - She doesn't feel well? She's a bit ill I don't know... I'll tell you the hotel's name Is she really ill? All this is just an excuse Shall I call her to check? Bastard! What are you talking about? I'm sorry but... you're fishing for an excuse! If I were you, I'd come We've just met up again You can't do this to me It's snowing, we're drunk where can we go like this? Bastard - Do you want a sweet? - Yes, thank you - Munho - Huh? What is it that you want more than anything? Me? There is one thing I want... It's an old dream Perhaps it won't come true But I like having this dream I'll succeed, even if it's tough Hunjoon! I think our university is the best in all of Korea I want to get tenure there That's my dream It will soon come true, right? I have no idea No one can really say until it actually happens I can imagine But it will come true You'll make a good teacher Thank you Sure It's on the ground floor, isn't it? Yes It must be just inside It's stupid arriving together I'll go, Wait here for me - Let's see if she's there - That's why I'm going in It's stupid going in together Wait, I'll come back You aren't too cold? Let me see! Are they from the bar? Do you want to look inside? Is it anything special? It's just a bar without windows Forget it, then Sunhwa told me to wait for her - She hasn't finished yet - Only natural for a bar Where did she say to wait? Apparently, she lives nearby I think I should wait for her Will you be all right? I think I should wait for her What can I do? She insisted Let's wait, then How long will she be? She could be a while Will you be okay? Let's wait for her You want to? Okay... Give me the matches Good-bye Have you seen the time? What's the matter? What? You must be tired You can go It's late What the hell do you mean? Eat some chicken Come on, drink up! I used to drink liquor with chicken every day That's all Sunhwa and I ever had Sunhwa and you? Every day liquor and chicken It's not very important... But there's stuff you don't know What? When you left for the USA Sunhwa suffered a great deal She did? Everyone blamed you For dumping her so cruelly That's all crap spread by assholes! Fucking morons! - Know what she told me? - What? That you're the worst kind of animal She told me that one day Here you are! - Been waiting long? - You've come! - You're here! - Shall we go? Come on Where? You just got here Have a drink I'm tired, I'm happy to see you but let's get out of here Are you tired? Get up, I'm tired I hate the smell of chicken Really? Let's go, then - How much do we owe? - Just a second Raw squid three bottles of rice liquor four beers, chicken... You really went there this morning? Yes, I woke up way too early Why did you photograph this? Because that's the place where I treated you so badly I wanted to go back confront the past and see that place again So you admit it? I treated you badly So you took these photos? To show them to me? Yep It made me realize how much I miss you Munho helped me The teashop hasn't changed It has, a little... It's the same outside but the inside has changed It looks the same I've been back there too Really? I knew it before but you're a funny man Me? Funny? Good What's wrong with your tooth? My tooth? - It's chipped - He's right You have sharp eyes You noticed it? - How did that happen? - Not so long ago... That's my neighbor She's a yoga instructor You're here! Here's my baby... Come to mommy Come here! Isn't my baby beautiful? Is she yours? - My baby... Isn't she beautiful? - She's big You have to obey Mummy - You peed in her house? - Yes, I scolded her - What's her name? - Mary - She's excited - Mary... - Mary, come here - Be careful - Mary - Be good She's excited She's so dark black dog! Mary, the black dog Hey, that hurts Let go Sunhwa Are you happy? I have no idea What does that mean? It's been a while, you and me You must be happy You look good Have you put on weight? Did you bring Hunjoon here? I was the one who wanted to come Why? I don't know It was snowing and... that made me sentimental Stop it - Sunhwa - What? I'll buy some food There's nothing left here Are you going alone? Hunjoon is drunk - Hunjoon, are you okay? - I'm okay Put him to bed I won't be long Stop drinking! Yeah What are you trying to prove? Give me that Burn me Burn me! Burn me! Somebody burn me! Burn me! Burn me! You want me to do it? You know how I waited for you? Do you have any idea how I waited? You waited for me? Is that true? Are you awake? Give me a minute Did I wake you? Will you suck me off? That felt so good Thank you You like the way it feels? Yes It's my tooth You're awake? You're already up - What's that? - Do you like kimchi stew? I've added some tuna to it My favorite dish! How did you know? Is that so? I don't remember You're up? I'm making stew Give me some water Are you hung over? Me too Is this really you? Mary, come and eat It's cold today It's warmer than yesterday - Kick the ball - Can you kick it? Sir! What a surprise! - What are you doing? - Playing soccer What brings you here? They're all on the stands - What are you here for? - I'm here with friends - Are they my students? - Yes They've come for my son's birthday - They came with me - Is that so? I have to go Let's have a drink after Wait for us They'll be pleased Quite a crowd Sungwoon, come on! Excuse me, I have to go Wait for us Go and say hello to them All right - Are they your students? - Yes I'm not coming to the spring Go ahead without me If you want - You're staying? - Yep We'll bring you back some spring water - Sir, put this on - I don't need it I pinched it for you Why are you staying here, sir? Go with them Shall I send them over? No, it's okay, I'm fine Go and play I'll see them later Okay - You took your time - Why are you alone? Sir, you're very elegant I have to go My friends are waiting - Having fun? Not too cold? - I'm not cold, sir Sir, buy us a drink! - A drink? It's too early - Come on! - Come and sit down - All right - Sir, sit here - Thank You - Thank you - What brings you here? - I had to come here yesterday - What? You saw my friends earlier? No They wanted to return to their past I helped them Do you have a problem? No, If you're here everything's fine - Do I sound stupid? - Not at all You're the most intelligent person I know Really? You flatter me - Sir, put this on - Keep it I'm not cold For a second, then It smells nice Very nice Really very nice Sir, come on they've already left - Is it over? - Yes The cold made them hungry They've left, Forgive them Kim Wook! What are you doing? Our teacher's here Come with us What about your friends? I won't bother waiting Are you eating now? Yes, to start with I'll come with you, then - Hello - Are you well? - Yeah - Hi Hello We took too long Isn't that his bottle? He has left He must have been angry Does he have a reason to wait? What's the matter with you? Why are you being so mean? I'm being mean? Okay, I'll go See you later Hunjoon! Hunjoon! Isn't that a bit easy? It's not easy You treated me badly I didn't sleep, not a wink! - Hunjoon! - Stop it! You should do that - Can you read palms? - When I drink, it happens A fortune-teller told me I had to obey men Really? People read palms their own way According to who they are and the lines change... Who hasn't answered? Your turn, Kyunghee Here's my question It's always the same The last time you had sex when was that? Who with? What was it like? Always the same questions - What? - I'm not criticizing you - Ask something else - Answer, now that I've asked It was two days ago I had been drinking He really seemed to want it I followed him I didn't feel much The place was pretty filthy I envy him Drink up and ask a question You're being pretty coarse So what are you? You're not coarse? You're classy? What does that mean? I just wanted to say that you're being coarse not that I'm classy What does classy mean? I'm classy Asshole! You think you're classy with your borrowed ideas? Have you read a lot? The books you've read are the remains of the dead They're their self-justification Their self-promotion! At least know what you're talking about! What do you know? What do we know? What are we sure of? Shit, why act so smart? Fucking admit you know nothing! You think you're the only one who thinks that? What? I'm not saying that How can you believe in nothing? Believing in nothing is nothing to be proud of! Is there another way to be happy? How do you think we can be happy? Sir! Why are you so pompous when girls are around? I didn't mean to annoy you but you have a problem Sir! It's you! Why did you leave? It's over anyway I thought you'd come this way I was right You've had a lot to drink No, I want to have a drink with you Now? More drinking? Just tonight I promise I'd like that What am I going to do with you? No, not like that I like honesty You're an honest man Determined I like that Are you coming? Just tonight I promise That's a motel Kyunghee! I want to go in there What about you? That suits me, sir Really? Well then... Let's go This isn't what I imagined It's really tiny It's really filthy You can't even sit down Sir, do you want me to suck you off? Actually... I'll suck you off No one's there, Who was it? I think it was him I think it was Minsoo Minsoo? Who's Minsoo? The one who annoyed you earlier Him? His name's Minsoo? He came this far? When my phone rang it was him Why did he do that? That's the way he is He's a shit-stirrer Really? I think so, anyhow He's weird always following me around What do we do now? It's a problem for you If you see him at university tomorrow Perhaps you'll find out more He'll end up mentioning it You'll let me know? Of course Only natural If you don't see him tomorrow and you call him Do you think he'd find that odd? Probably I never call him But don't worry I'll see him in class tomorrow or the day after But what if he tells someone before then? Would he do that knowing that I'm involved? I think he'll talk to me first What's his name again? Minsoo He has attended your class I don't remember My memory's not very good Here's a taxi I'll go first Go ahead Take care Good-bye SkyFury
