 

                        EYES WITHOUT A FACE The Professor? No, not yet I'll tell him as soon as he finishes Man's greatest new hope is the recapture of physical youth This hope... ...is afforded by the heterograft But the heterograft, that is to say the transplanting... ...of living tissues or organs from one human being to another... ...has hitherto been possible only when the two subjects in question... ...demonstrate a perfect biological compatibility What we must now do is modify the organism receiving foreign tissues One method is to use heavy radiation bombardment to destroy... ...the antibodies which form an obstacle to the heterograft To achieve this end, however, the intense radiation required... ...is such that the patient cannot survive So exsangunination is practised The patient under radiation is drained of the last drop of blood There was a call for you, Professor The forensic people... you know, the morgue. You're to go right away Your paper was a perfect tonic Thrilling, wasn't it, Carlo? What a wonderful future you showed us As to the future, Madame, we cannot wait that long He's changed since his daughter vanished, he makes strange remarks It's a strange business, but that's how it looks to me Gnessier's daughter vanished from the clinic, her face an open wound The lack of facial tissue of course confirms your supposition The car crash, the facial burns, then prolonged immersion in water... And the rats... don't forget the rats True. Yet the description of this drowned girl fits Simone Tessot I asked the Tessot girl's father to come in... something doesn't sit right It's odd that the body should have been naked but for a man's coat Why should Gnessier's daughter, disfigured in a car accident... ...feel the need to strip naked before drowning herself in her despair? And that vast open wound in place of a face is odd, too The edges are so clean that it might have been done by a scalpel Here he is Doctor Lherminier... Inspector Parot, from the Missing Persons Bureau I deeply regret the unfortunate circumstances occasioning this meeting Please explain This morning, two bargemen retrieved the body of a girl from the Seine The period of immersion tallies with your daughter's disappearance The description also tallies - facial tissue destroyed, the eyes undamaged IDENNTIFICATIONN ROOM It is her Monsieur Tessot is here, Doctor Tell him we have an identification. It is not his daughter I called him in case... Yes... of course Forgive me, Professor... I'm Henri Tessot I came about my daughter, but they tell me she was yours Are you certain, Professor? Quite certain? All too certain, unfortunately It was such a shock when they called me... I thought I would go mad It's ten days since we saw Simone. Something must have happened to her Strange that I should have to comfort you, for whom some hope yet remains I've simply got to find a room He gets more and more like his father as he grows older Remember old Gnessier, the notary? He wasn't exactly skinny, either He doesn't enjoy munch luck, anyway Lost his wife four years ago, now his daughter Paris, fame, fortune... what does it all add up to? Who's the young man? The daughter's fianc, a doctor. He works with the Professor - And the woman? - His "secretary". A foreigner She looks upset Go home, my boy - No, let's leave - I like things done properly Let's go. I can't take any more Be quiet! For my beloved daughter Doctor Gressier's residence No admittance to patients and their visitors Where did you find this? I don't like the way you poke into everything I haven't the time to explain to you just now You see here your name bordered in black What are you imagining it means? I don't have to imagine - I see, I live horrors What have you done now? What had to be done, for your sake All of it is for your sake The announcement of a death, the name substituted... That girl died after the operation, you see I took another risk, and pretended that it was you who died Since people think you are dead, they will not ask questions... ...or try to find out what is going on here Christiane... your mask! You must get into the habit of wearing it Where have you hidden it? The habit... No, no, I only meant the habit of wearing it until we are successful Please don't cry, darling I shall succeed, I promise you I don't believe that any more You have no reason to doubt me I'm a man of distinction, am I not? You shall have a real face, I pledge you my word I'm not allowed mirrors, but I can see my reflection in the window If the windows are open, there are other shiny surfaces... ...the blade of a knife, polished wood My face frightens me, my mask terrifies me even more Have faith, Christiane Look at me... wasn't he successful with me? You had a face, though. Ravaged perhaps, but not destroyed like mine He's lying to me, because he knows it was his fault His fault? It was a car accident, pure chance He always has to dominate, even on the road. He drove like a demon I nearly died after the accident. Why didn't he let me? I wish I were blind... or dead Who is this? Why don't you say something? Would you like this spare ticket? My friend hasn't turned up I'd be delighted, but I thought of buying a cheaper seat There's no need to pay for it Sorry to be late. My class overran I was so anxious to pass on the good news. I've found you a room I can't believe it. I'm so pleased... how can I ever thank you? Thank me after you've seen the room, I think you'll like it - Whereabouts is it? - A very nice area Same again for the young lady I'll drive you there. The owners are friends. Trees everywhere, you'll see It seems a long way I made a big detour. The traffic is so heavy at this hour There's the train that will get you to Paris in less than 20 minutes Don't you feel lonely, so far away from your family? A little, sometimes Those dogs... how many are there? You see? You'll be well guarded Mademoiselle Edna Grnberg... Monsieur Dormeunil Delighted. A drop of port to pick you up after your journey? No, thanks. I don't want to stay long We're not in that munch of a hurry In a moment, I'll show you your room It has a lovely view over the trees, I'm sure you'll like it I don't know... I'll have to think it over You really must see the room Of course, you can't judge properly in the dark It's not that... but being so far out isn't very convenient for me Not convenient? It's very convenient here, very convenient Perhaps, but... I don't want to be too late getting back tonight I must meet a friend. I'll let you know tomorrow Tomorrow will be too late, my dear I'll start after diner This time I must try a larger graft... ...removed in a single section People are all the same. They love animals when they're young Then the animals grow up, eat too munch and get dumped in the woods I don't think one should ever do things by halves Especially as the second half is by far the easiest - Did she eat well? - Yes, luckily. She was wasting away She's happy this time. She believes I showed her how well it is healing It looks perfect, so munch better than yesterday I was so afraid Don't be. I, too, believe this time I can only hope To achieve such a thing... God, it would be beyond price I have done so munch wrong to perform this miracle I have done you great wrong, too I know, but I shall never forget that I owe my face to you Yes, I sometimes forget that myself With good reason, it shows so little now What have you decided about Edna? Look after her, feed her. I'll let you know later Edna has escaped... that way - No other details come to mind? - No Yes... Edna said the woman always wore a big pearl necklace Wound around her neck like a choker, if you know what I mean Yes, but it doesn't help too munch You may go now, Mademoiselle Pretty, isn't she? Another one with blue eyes All of them students, all the same age, all the same type All mysteriously disappearing This one's Swiss, so we'll have the embassy on to us, telephone calls Talking about the series of blue-eyed girls, what about my one? Brought in for shoplifting Let her go with a lecture. But get her address... you never know This sort of thing will land you in jail I've never done it before. I don't know what got into me You'll be up in court next time. Give me your address Now hop it I was certain of success To think you doubted me Now you have your pretty face Your true face You can start living again Yes... but how can we let people know I'm still alive? To start with, you'll travel... a long trip I'll arrange papers for you. You can choose a name for yourself It'll be fun A new face, a new identity You're more beautiful than ever. Now there's something angelic about you Angelic? That I wouldn't know When I look into a mirror, I feel I'm seeing someone... ...who looks like me, returning from far away What about Jacques? Jacques? Yes, that does pose a problem, of course I'll explain to him. He loves you so munch He'll be very happy Smile... Smile... not too munch Try Pentothal. I'll come at once Another emergency Will you come with me? Not using make-up, I hope No. Why? No reason. You look good, that's all See you tomorrow, darling I won't be long. I'll come and say good night - You seemed anxious, examining her - You're imagining things Why are you lying? I've learned to read your face. Tell me the truth It's failed February 15 February 20 A week after healing spots of pigmentation appear Later palpation reveals small subcutaneous nodules On the 12th day necrosis of the graft tissue is evident The first ulcerations - signs of rejection of the graft of infection The dead graft tissue must be removed Take any dog, and everything works I'm stuck with this beastliness Say something... this is aggravating - Are you mad? Who were you calling? - Nobody Do you realize how rash you've been? I know the dead should be silent, then let me really die I can't bear it any more... ...afraid to look at one's face, to touch it... ...for fear of feeling the cracks and furrows Calm down, my dear. Trust him. He will succeed, I know it You're lying. He'll experiment as if I were one of his dogs A human guinea-pig, what a godsend for him You've no right to say that I want to die... please! Give me one of those injections the dogs get when things go wrong Stop that! You must kill me. I can't bear it any more Come at once! It was Christiane's voice, I'm sure You thought you heard it... Have you mentioned this to Professor Gnessier? Of course, but he insists the body was his daughter I know, I was there. What can I tell you? A joke in bad taste, perhaps I deal in facts, and these statements by witnesses... ...are nothing but "seems", "possibly", and vague details A red taxi picking a girl up... A pretty woman with a pearl choker like a dog-collar... ...going off with another one A pearl choker like a dog-collar? That rings a bell with you? Yes, it reminds me of someone I thought that was all over I hoped so, Mademoiselle Paulette Mrodon, but the high-ups think... ...I was too lenient So I suppose I'm for it. Must I go to jail? A court case first If I know my parents, they'll never get over it I've been thinking... there may be a way to get round all this Of course, it would involve munch discretion, and some intelligence I can be very discreet. As to intelligence... ...if it's not too complicated... Don't worry, it's just a little service you can perform for us - What must I do? - Bleach your hair, for a start - You're joking - Jokes aren't in our line - You have to be much blonder - It won't suit me Never mind. Next you'll see a doctor, who'll send you to a clinic - But I'm not ill - You'll say you are Brief her on the details At the clinic, you'll complain of headaches... I'll write this down I'll give you a note to take to Doctor Gleize He'll give you one for Doctor Gnessier What? Wait, I'll note that She could come in tomorrow morning Don't worry, I'll keep an eye on her. It's only to check out a possibility If anything happens, I'll alert you You're doing well Thank you, Doctor She was admitted this morning - Referred by? - Doctor Gleize Severe pain? Yes... sometimes Do an opthalmoscopic and an electroencephalogram today Doctor... are they going to shave my head? No... I hope not, anyway. It would be a shame Don't be afraid... we're friends, aren't we? Tell me how many fingers I'm holding up Three And this time... how many? Three No... two - What do you think, Doctor? - I'm very hopeful Can you make him better? Certainly... just trust me - What's your prognosis? - What is yours? We're in agreement Close your eyes Open your eyes That's it, you can open your eyes You'll feel a slight electric shock. It won't hurt Send me the trace as soon as you've finished No signs of anything wrong with this Paulette Mrodon Haemorrhage in Number 15, sir See to that, Jacques Here's the trace, sir Nothing evident. Discharge her tonight, that will free a bed We may well have an emergency Am I supposed to give you this form? - May I make a call? - To Paris? What number? Mum? It's Paulette. Everything's fine, I'm coming right home - What do I owe you? - No charge How can I get back to Paris? There's a buns. Turn left as you leave, a 15 minute walk Can I give you a lift as I'm going your way? Inspector Parot? It's Jacques Vernon She's left already? They don't hang about at your clinic They don't seem to be kidnappers, either I'll check anyway, to make sure she arrived home safely Thanks for calling us Two men want to see you at the clinic Not now. They can come back tomorrow Good evening, Professor. We're sorry to bother you at this hour Did Mademoiselle Paulette Mrodon in fact leave the clinic this evening? How did you know she was to leave? She called her mother to say she'd be back. She never arrived So we've come to ask about her It's easily verified. My orders were that this patient could go home - Has Paulette Mrodon left? - I'll check So you're interested in this young lady? Yes, she's involved in a case, and we wanted to talk to her today I have a feeling that you're a little late Paulette Mrodon... I remember now - a girl with blue eyes. She made a telephone call I told her where she could catch the buns I'm sorry, but once they go through these doors... ...patients are no longer my responsibility I understand, Professor. Forgive us for having bothered you Good night, then, Professor Since you're leaving, Jacques, please show these gentlemen out I'm sorry to have troubled you Don't worry about it, we're used to following up false trails I quite understand what must be going through your mind All these coincidences... I wanted to be sure in my heart of hearts Quite right, and now we are sure Speaking of hearts, I'm sure you'll soon find things looking brighter You're young, Doctor, you have your life before you Christiane, put that down Why?
