 

                        There was a legend that Kwok Ching and his wife Wong Yung got the sword of Yeung Guo They mixed it with fine gold and made two swords One is called To Lung and the other named Yee-Tin And they wrote what they learnt together with Ngo Fai's many tactics and the secret of the most powerful Kung Fu Scroll the Lunar Secret was hidden inside the swords Whoever got it, whoever could rule the world of martial arts The supreme of the world of martial arts... Thus, no matter evil or virtuous in order to get these two weapons numerous fights were caused... Two groups were thus formed One, was headed by Shaolin Shaolin Wu-tong Ngo-mai Kun-lun Hung-tung Wah-shan And their opponent was the Fire Sect which came from Persia They called themselves the Ming Sect But, they were named the Evil Sect by others They're so mysterious and always went against Yuen Dynasty Ming Sect always caused riots against it Their headquarters were located at the Bright Summit Branch leaders, Purple, White, Gold and Green were all powerful They were: Queen of Purple Dragon King of White Eagle King of Gold Lion and King of Green Bat Groups were strongly against each others Their fellows couldn't make friends with each other Otherwise, they would be killed Chang Tsui-san the 5th student of Chang San Fung was righteous and heroic disregarded the unreasonable rules fell in love with Yan So So daughter of King of White Eagle and he be-friended with King of Gold Lion, Tse Shun King of Gold Lion's master Shing Kwun in order to help Yuen's Government to destroy Ming Dynasty he killed Tse Shun's whole farmily Tse Shun risked his life to seize the To Lung's Sword to take revenge for his family he killed many innocent lives Tsui Shan and So So didn't want others to know Tse's whereabout they went to a nobody-land lce and Fire lsland to live in seclusion Although he got the sword, Tse Shun couldn't get the secret of it until the 1 00th birthday of Chang San Fung Tsui Shan brought his wife and his son Mo-kei to visit his master Crab in sugar candy I want it Please give me one Alright Mo-kei, enjoy it Thank you, mom Good boy I asked you not to get off the cart This is the foot of Wu Tong Mountain I think it doesn't matter It's hard to say For To Lung Sword they can do whatever in mind Dad, why do they want God-father's To Lung's Sword? I have told you many times Don't mention your God-father's name don't you forget? I won't do it next time Remember, no matter who asks about your God-father No matter how they push you don't tell a word, remember? Yes, dad said we can't betray our friend Or, it'll be non-righteous Good boy I think Master will like you Is your Master kind? He is the kindest one among the kindest Chang Tsui San... It hurts It's The Cry from Jinx it'll affect one's mind Resist it with your inner power Or, you'll be hypnotized and lose your mind Who are you? Show up now Jinx's Palm? Mo-kei Mother I think you're the notorious Jinxs Chang, if you want your son back tell us where the King of Gold Lion is Stop dreaming If we hit your son with our Jinx's Palm What do you think? How dare you? The kid is innocent Why do you ill-treat this kid? If you let him go Wu-tong and the Ming Sect will appreciate so much Are you threatening me with Wu-tong and Ming Sect? Even that old jerk Chang San Fung's here I won't give it a chance Won't you? Master Master I, Chang San Fung beg you to let the boy go I see, the famous Chang San Fung is just a fatty I'm all eyed Right, my name is being exaggerated It's not a big deal Fatty if you're afraid of my Jinx's Palm ask your student to tell us where Tse Shun is Right Tsui Shan, told them then Master, Tse Shun is my buddy Right, how can I be non-righteous? That's right In this martial-world how can you be non-righteous? How can you face others then? Please give us some faces then Old bluffer step aside if you're afraid of death Or you'll die on your 1 00th birthday It's useless to sigh You assholes I think today is my birthday I shouldn't quarrel or get angry But you two forced me to break my rule I want to teach you a good lesson Brother How dare you beat my boy?! If you hit him once I'll hit him 1 00 times Hubby, your master is so hot tempered He's always hot tempered OK, let's release the hostages together OK, I don't think you'd pull off a shunt One, two, three Mo-kei Mo-kei Watch out Go! Jinx's Palm? Mo-kei Take Mo-kei to Shaolin, no... Take him to Wu-tong I'll get the antidote from the bastards No way, if we go on like this Mo-kei will be killed Cut Mo-kei Brother, how is he? Jinx's Palm is so powerful I think, we have to wait for Master's antidote Mo-kei he... Mom, I feel so painful Don't panic, Mo-kei Here are some candies If you feel painful, eat one It's sweet So you'll forget the pain, got me? Uncles Shaolin, Ngo-mai, Hung-tung, Wah Shan and Kun-lun's representatives' approaching they claim to celebrate Master's birthday In fact, they want Uncle Chang to tell where the King of Gold Lion Today is the birthday of my master He asked us not to make any grand celebration So, he may enjoy a peaceful birthday Thus, we appreciate your visit and we'll express our thanks later Please go back We dare not disturb Master Chang But he has to hand out Chang Tsui San and Yan So So and tell us the whereabouts of the King of Gold Lion Then we will leave at once Master No-mercy what do you think it is? How dare you get anyone you wish? To take revenge for the victims killed by Evil Sect We want to get Tse Shun by any means If you do not hand us the wanted I'll fight with you then I've heard that you're great in kung-fu I, Sung Yuen Kiu would like to offend you now Chang Tsui San, if you won't come out your seniors will be killed Stop Master No-mercy, don't go too far You're willing to show up with your bitch! Where is King of Gold-Lion? I won't tell you my buddy's whereabouts You deserve it! You, be friend with that murderer I'll wake you up Bitch... You?! Damn nun... You Watch my powerful Yee-tin Sword! It's no big deal If not were your master Kwok Shang my best friend I wouldn't have given you face Yee-tin Sword is with you that'll only bring bad luck to the world I'll keep this sword for your master for 7 years ask a better student to collect it Chang San Fung how dare you protect your sinful student? If we attack you together I don't think you can kill all of us When you're exhausted you'll be in deep shit too How dare you? Are you threatening me? Master, I'll be wholly responsible for this case They come for me only Let me settle it myself OK. You may settle it yourself but about fighting I've never given a damn Are you threatening me? Seniors you want me to tell brother's whereabouts In fact, you want his T o Lung Sword and to be the supreme only I'll never betray my friend But I don't hope my master at his old age to risk his life with you Well, I'll give you an answer now Tsui San! Dad! Dad! Dad! Why do you kill yourself? Mom, why did dad do so? Mo-kei, recognize each face remember them one by one You've to remember all their faces for each of them is stained with your dad's blood Did they push dad to death? You have to take revenge for your dad Don't let them escape Miss Yan, we feel sorry for the death of your husband Now, you're the only one who knows where Tsu Shun is Master Hung Man, come here I'll tell you But will you let my son and I go? Monks don't take his words back OK. I'll tell you only Miss, can you make it clear? Master King of Gold Lion is living there Wish you to get the Sword soon Madam... Where is he? She didn't tell me No? You do want to get the sword alone Mom! Mo-kei, mom cheated them See, how powerful is mom's cheating skill?! Remember, don't ever trust any woman! More beautiful the woman is more capable is her to tell lies Remember Mom We've to take revenge for brother No, save Mo-kei first Mo-kei... Master You have terrific inner power So what? These years, I've never got a way to cure you from feeling cold If the Shaolin monk hadn't jumped from here he'd have cured you with his Great Solar Stance Great Solar Stance? Great Solar Stance is the mysterious kung-fu of Shaolin It's as powerful as the Great Lunar Stance But the Scroll has been lost for years Accidentally, a cooking monk in Shaolin discovered it inside sutra After he learnt the kung-fu he defeated over monks and escaped then he came to challenge me Chang, you're really great Great Solar Stance can make you famous in this world of martial arts But I think, you're not virgin before practicing such kung-fu Otherwise, I couldn't have defeated you I can't imagine this kind of kung-fu isn't invincible Why should I try so hard to practise it then? Chang San Fung, see you Nuts If he wasn't dead his kung-fu would have saved you My dear boy, no matter how you've to be virgin to practise kung-fu So, your kung-fu would be more powerful Don't think I'm a 1 00-year old granny My dicky erects every morning What's that? Why isn't mine do the same? You're weak Master What's the matter, Ching-su? Ngo-mai's Master No-mercy sent her student Chow Chi-yu here to get back their Yee Tin Sword Chow Chi-yu?! How do you do, Master Chang? Is No-mercy's temper better? She's studied Buddhism in recent years she's great improvement You're a polite girl. It's lucky for her to get such a good student Mo-kei, return the Yee Tin Sword to her Brother Mo-kei, are you the son of Mr. Chang Tsui Shan? I... Yes, Brother Mo-kei is the orphan left by my uncle I'm Sung Ching-su My dad is the eldest brother of Wu-tong's Seven Heroes Thank you, Brother Mo-kei Chi-yu, why not stay here for few days? Let my student Yuen Kiu teach you our sword stance as present Thank you Master Chang Brother Mo-kei Are you watching them? Master Chang loves you so much I think you'll be his successor for sure Don't worry Mo-kei can't practise kung-fu We'll take care of him Sister Chi-yu, why not practise together? He was hurt by Jinx's Palm 8 years ago he can't practise Kung-fu in his life Dad Ching-su, Master wants to practise Tai-chi Sword for 3 months We have to stay with him in the secret cell In these 3 months, you've to take care of everything in Wu-tong Thank you, Dad Ching-su, you have to work hard In the 3rd generation of Wu-tong Mo-kei can't practise kung-fu You're the only one that we have to depend on Master Chang specially made Give one to Mo-kei per night so it can stop him from feeling cold Ching-su will take good care of Brother Mo-kei What are you doing? Go... Go Brother Mo-kei, what's happened? Someone peeped at you Really? They're so bad. I'm so scared They've all gone But I'm scared too Why not come and accompany me? I know you wouldn't accompany me Let me accompany you I know you care me most Are you hot? No You're sweating How dare you! Chang Mo-kei you think you're a lady killer? Brother Ching-su will there be any accident? Don't worry, I'm in charge now You jinx you dragged your parents to death You only know how to flatter Master Chang So he passes you his inner energy to keep you from coldness If he'd passed me his inner energy I'd have been top graded kung-fu master Your mom is jinx You can insult me, but not my mom I wonder are you the blood of my uncle Maybe you're a son of a bitch Go to hell Brother Ching-su Catch him, I wanna chop his hand off I see, Wu-tong is not heroic at all My friend, who are you? Friend? I'm not a friend of yours Dress Bitch Come down if you have guts Wu-tong's kung-fu is nothing special The kung-fu of Ming Sect is much more powerful Sister Chi-yu attack her with your Yee-tin Sword You bitch Yee Tin Sword is really in Wu-tong Aren't you leaving? Watch out don't let the dogs of Wu-tong kill you I don't allow you insult Wu-tong You must be insane I'll chat with you after the fight Bitch, I'll let you see how powerful my sword is Thank you, I come for this Sword in fact I want to break this non-breakable Cold-chain Wu-tong's Sword Stance Escape Here... run Your kung-fu is so bad Forget about me, go now No, they'd kill you if they catch you up Kidding, you bring me to this dead end? Chang, you allied with the Evil Sect and mess our temple Now, with the name of Acting Manager of Wu-tong I exile you Wu-tong students have my order Yes Kill with no mercy Yes Miss, I've cragged you down Call me Siu Chiu How dare you seduce man in such critical moment? Where can you go? It's soft?! Why do you loosen your hands without any notice? For I touched yours... Dumb-bell, you must be educated by your dad My dad died years ago You're called Chang Mo-kei Is your dad Chang Tsui-san? My Chang, I'm your maid Siu Chiu Get up first Siu Chiu is the maid of King of White Eagle I offended King of White Eagle so he locked me up I went into fugitive I've heard Yee Tin Sword is in Wu-tong I wanted to make use of it Luckily I met you and you saved my life Get up first I'm not your Mister You touched me again You're the grandson of King of White Eagle so I have to greet you Mister In fact, I haven't seen my grandfather since birth What kind of noise is it? Monster? Go... This way That way... I can't imagine there would be visitors for me You are... I'm the soul of hell Are you the student of Wu-tong? I'm Chang Mo-kei I haven't eaten human flesh for a long time Chang San Fung made me suffer here It's not too much to eat one of his student, right? Are you the cooking monk? You remember me? The girl after you is so attractive She must be more delicious than you She isn't Wu-tong's student Come and eat me You're heroic too! Senior... Mister... Mister Chang, how are you? It's cold What have you done to him? Kidding! He's already been serious injured Hey, who hurt you? I was hit by the Jinx's Palm 8 years ago Nothing can cure it It must be Master Chang passes you inner energy in these years He loves you so much Senior, I know you can cure him I beg you to cure him My Great Solar Stance is the only solution But why should I cure Chang's people? Chang Mo-kei, unless you scold your Master Chang as asshole Then I'll teach you Great Solar Stance to cure you from coldness Impossible You don't save him. That's OK Why did you hit him? Just scold Chang as Shame-less asshole for three times Then you'll be free from this kind of suffer forever and you'll have invincible power This is a piece of cake Follow me Chang is a shameless asshole... Shameless asshole... is you OK, I'll see how can you get through this night Mister... It's cold Cold?! Mister how are you? It's cold Still very cold? So cold... Will it be warmer? I can't imagine Chang has such a brave student like him I'm still living... Mister are you alright? Siu Chiu Mister are you having any weapon with you? No Why do I feel something solid pointing at me? Really? Erected? What is it? Nothing Shit, will that make her pregnant? So soon? What did you say? Nothing, I said I wake up soon Mister, you could stand last night I think you'll be alright Stop dreaming! You're lucky last night You'll feel ice-cold 2 to 3 times a day If no one uses inner energy to keep your life You'll die You hard-hearted Chang Mo-kei if you don't learn my Great Solar Stance You'll suffer coldness for the rest of your life Leave Wu-tong, and be my student Master Chang is so nice to me I can't do that You're sick Why do you push him to learn your kung-fu? I was defeated by Chang San Fung I'm so furious I want my student to be more superior than any of his student Why not teach me? If a woman practices Great Solar Stance one year later, she'll have flat chest with hairy hands and legs with beard and man's voice Do you want it? Forget it Mister, his backbone is broken he moves with that ball Why not promise him now after learning his kung-fu then we can take our words back Wu-tong's student is always righteous and virtuous! I'm a Wu T ong's student but he forces me to study his kung-fu there must be trick I won't learn it anyhow I don't think you can force me to get your kung-fu Can't l? Siu Chiu Let me help you I don't allow you to do so Great Sun appears the blood flows backward Don't press my head with the ass Air from belly goes through the whole body It's breaking Blood sea T op of the back Solar Pool Door of life Ken-suk... Chang, you have the 1 st grade of the Great Solar Stance You have my kung-fu now You can never get rid of it I'll push you to learn the 2nd grade Unless you die or you're betraying Wu-tong I'm useless to let that evil bitch hit Mo-kei down the cliff I was late I could only killed the bitch but couldn't save Mo-kei Please kill me as compensation to Uncle Chang I'll kill you now Yuen Kiu, you can't save Mo-kei anyway It's useless to kill him Brother Ching-su tried his best Mo-kei is such a poor boy Death may be a release to him Shaolin invited us to launch a raid to Bright Summit We'd maintain peace and righteousness of the world of martial arts Yuen Kiu, lead your juniors, Ching-su and Chi-yu to go with you Yes, Master The 9th grade Great Solar in the Sky Chang, you've got all stances from Great Solar Stance From now on, you're full of mysterious and powerful energy Your wound is cured too From now on, it's hard for you to die Master, you made it! Thank you Master Aren't you unwilling to learn my kung-fu? It should be a suffering instead I know you didn't mean to teach me You just want to lose the face of my Master So, I just tricked you to teach me your kung-fu I have to take revenge for my parents I wished to learn it most You're cunning Not only pretty women aren't trustworthy You can't even trust those seem to be kind-hearted! I wanna kill you I have the same kung-fu as you How can you kill me? Watch out, he's so powerful Senior, please forgive me You cured me by your kung-fu Thank you for your lesson You cunning guy If I can make my revenge I'll come back to save you You'll die terribly Let's wait and see Let's see who'll die first Let's go See how long will you two get together! You'll not have happy ending! I've made it Shaolin, Ngo-mai, Hung-tung Kwun-lun and Wah-shan All of you're stained with the blood of my parents I want you to repay it Your look is horrible If you were me You kept every hatred inside your heart for 8 years to be bullied and insulted all the time When you have a chance to release you'll act like me Are you going back to Wu-tong? Sung Ching-su is the only son of my uncle I can't take revenge to him No way I won't go back to Wu-tong With the help of my Great Solar Stance I can go everywhere I'll go to Bright Summit to see my grandfather And I'll beg him to unlock you Thank you We risked our lives together don't call me Mister anymore I love to serve you Will you let me serve you forever? You're so nice to me I'll always remember it Now you're so powerful I think you'll attract many girls I think, you'll soon forget me No, once there is sun I won't let you leave me Mister Crab in sugar candies... See, there're candies for sale These were the last thing that my mom bought me After I was hit by Jinx's Palm she gave me 3 candies She asked me to eat when I felt painful When they were dead you ate the first one, right? I dried these two So, I've to keep it properly Take us some wine and food Yes... Schools of martial arts are launching a raid to the Bright Summit I'm sure they'll destroy the Evil Sect If we're late we'll then miss the great moment So what if you can catch them? It means more people will be sent to hell only There are branch leaders and the invincible Elements Flat Don't you think a small potato like you can destroy them? How ignorant are you! She must be somebody in the Evil Sect Arrest her Let's hide up first You're putting a quart into a pint pot! Is she somebody in the Ming Sect? I've never seen her Let's deal about the raid to Bright Summit I'll try my best Do you know them? Of course, they hit me with Jinx's Palm 8 years ago Don't panic Many powerful kung-fu masters are here we can't compete with them Mr. Deer How do you do? Master, we all depend on you Please send my regards to his Majesty See you Who is hiding here? Come out! What are you doing here? Kid, what are you looking at? He seems to be familiar to us Forget it a couple is enjoying chatting here Let's go I just wanted... Luckily you didn't move. See This guy must be somebody Even Deer Man and Crane Man seem to be his fellows Guy? This is a woman Woman? She's like my mom She's pretty so you said she's like your mom You're like my mom now Still kidding?! The Bright Summit is surrounded by the schools Let's hurry there OK The Evil Sect is well prepared The Elements Flags are all in position Even Wai Yat-Siu King of Green Bat has come back to help Even though he's against King of White Eagle If Queen of Purple Dragon and King of Gold Lion are back It'll be difficult for us to fix them If King of Gold Lion is back that's perfect We can seize his To Lung Sword Do you want my Yee Tin Sword too? That's what I want I dare not She can read my mind Luckily she didn't know I wanted to rape her too You rape her I'll take her students instead What a hand job for you, pal My pleasure What are you two talking about? Well, we decided to donate the treasure of the Evil Sect to the poor Queen of Purple Dragon is the Holy Lady of Persia's Ming Sect She's disappeared for many years It's believed that she's gone to Persia After a severe fight King of Gold Lion were blind It's not difficult to handle him But King of White Eagle and King of Green Bat are difficult to handle Uncle, I have an idea Go ahead King of White Eagle has a grandson He's the son of Chang Tsui-san He's called Chang Mo-kei He died few months ago King of White Eagle doesn't know it And old man if he meets his grandson again he'll be very happy If his grandson attacks suddenly sure he'll have a great chance to kill him Great idea So we can kill King of White Eagle and King of Green Bat easily And rob all the money of them Sell all the woman to be hookers We're from decent schools of martial arts how can we do so? You're using my passed nephew I don't agree to do so Isn't it good? We just want to help the poor only I agree with Master Yuen Chun You asked someone to act as Chang Mo-kei Who is the most suitable person then? The son of Mr. Sung is the best choice I won't allow our Wu-tong student to do such thing You cunning bastards are discussing evil traps Watch out for being hit by thunder Bat's down It's King of Green Bat, Wai Yat-siu Wai, let my wife go Your wife is so fat, it's no big deal for me to suck her blood Damn it No-mercy, you killed my wife If anyone is bitten by Wai Yat-siu one will lose one's mind and obey Wai only If I don't kill your wife we'll have one more enemy You can't compete with her Wai doesn't know how powerful Yee Tin Sword is he used Mrs. Ho to be his shield I believe that he's hurt by the energy of my sword Your Highness Have the schools arrived the hillside? Your Highness, they have arrived Set the elements position When they come half way I want half of them to die Yes I'm back Your Highness Bat, I'm glad you come to help That means, you really love our sect Old man, I've got some information and I fought with No-mercy too Her Yee Tin Sword is really powerful Are you alright? Of course, I'll be alright Set the position now Someone who claims himself the grandson of King of White Eagle named Chang Mo-kei, just kill him without a warning Yes What did you say? My grandson? They'll send someone to act as your grandson to assassinate you If our Holy Fire Table is still here I won't scare her Yee Tin Sword Bullshit If our Master Yeung didn't disappear With his Magic Stance he'd have killed them easily It hurts Are you hurt? Of course But I can't lose my face in front of them Never mind I'll help you to cure your wound It's useless, you've to suck the poison out the wound No problem Really? Yes, I didn't take my words back What a good buddy See, the wound is on my ass It's alright if you don't suck but you shouldn't kick me So many people They don't seem to be the man from Ming Sect Why are there so many flags? This is the code of our Sect They've rushed into the forbidden zone of the Elements Flag Elements Flag? Don't retreat We're from decent schools we can't be cowards If you want to be coward you'll be killed You're right You go first Chi-yu, give me the Yee Tin Sword Yes, master Go Retreat Let's chase Pals, I'm Siu Chiu the maid of King of White Eagle This is the grandson of White Eagle Mr. Chang Mo-kei You're Chang Mo-kei? Yes, I am The order of King of White Eagle who claims to be Chang Mo-kei whoever should be killed. Kill him Go Rush over there I'm really Chang Mo-kei Kill Don't even know who's enemy you deserve to be beaten Great Solar Stance Bravo Hero, which school do you come from? Master, he's Chang Mo-kei He's the son of Chang Tsui-san? Why is he so powerful? Where are you taking me to? This is the forbidden zone of Ming Sect What? Forbidden? Shall we go in? Other than the master of our Sect can enter before his death If he dies outside the ones who carry his corpse should commit suicide in here How about you? I'm a maid, King of White Eagle doesn't let me join the sect Don't go Go Damn it, if you move one more step I want you to die terribly If I stay here, I would die terribly You fool! Mister, let's go Commander, what'll we do? This is the grave of our ex-masters There are many traps inside If they go in, they'll surly be killed Let's go back to help What's the matter? I'm scared Don't be afraid. Look They're all skulls I think they're the ones who carried the corpse Why don't we go out? We're surrounded by the Flag Soldiers So many men outside I don't want to hurt my grandfather's men with my kung-fu I think, we have no choice but to go forward I know there is a road to get to the Bright Summit You're only a maid of King of Eagle why do you know that much? I heard it, thus I know it My grandfather locked you with such heavy chain There must be some reasons Who are you? Don't cheat me Don't you trust me? I just want to know the truth Mister, I have made an oath I can't tell anybody But I promise, I didn't mean to hurt your grandfather and I'll never hurt you Please let me keep some secret will you? I promise, when it's time, I'll tell you OK. Let's talk later There're foot marks on the floor Yeung Ting Tin, you're the master of the Evil Sect, but so what? Even you took away my lover, so what? Can't imagine you would die here I, Shing Kwun, am now using the schools to destroy your Evil Sect I want to take your Magic Stance too Then I'll be invincible and to be the Pope of Yuen Dynasty Even I don't have the To Lung Sword I can be the supreme of the world of martial arts The ex-master of Ming Sect disappeared for over 20 years In fact, he died right here This may be Shing Kwun the foe of my God-father I see, he became the dog of Yuen Government He set a variance between the schools and Ming Sect That's why he dragged my God-father's family to death Who? Chang Mo-kei Didn't you die? What's the enmity between you and Ming Sect? What's the enmity between you and my dad? Why did you drag them like this? Yeung Ting Tin took my lover from me I had adultery with his wife for 3 years At last he discovered that That's why he got mad But he still wanted to kill me My lover wanted to cover me she committed suicide I stayed 20 years in the Shaolin as undercover I just wait for this chance to destroy Ming Sect You seduced his wife and ruined his Evil Sect and you claimed yourself reasonable What a shame! No matter it's right and wrong It's not your turn to criticize me Chang Mo-kei, I'm sending you to see your parents Get lost What kind of kung-fu is it? Great Solar Stance I can't imagine I'd be defeated by you In fact, Chang Tsui-san had a secret What is it? Shit Get lost, I try to break it with my Great Solar Stance Mister Don't use Great Solar Stance I'm afraid it would collapse Are we waiting for death then? We've to find other exit There're some words Those who come into this cell Should bow to the skeleton or the soul will give you trouble We're going to die we'll be souls too We don't need to be scared Maybe we'll be saved We should respect the dead Come and bow Master Yeung we're forced to disturb you If we have a chance to get out we'll take revenge for you to kill Shing Kwun Please bless us What are these word? It's the Persia language Can you read it? Sure After bowing to me You'll have my Magic Stance After you learnt it you can push the stone open and reach Bright Summit Mister the Magic Stance is written on the rocks He was really wise he knew Shing Kwun wouldn't bow to him So he designed such trap Practise now, then we may get out But it's not right to steal Ming Sect's kung-fu It's written that after you've learnt it You should pass a message on behalf of Master Yeung ask King of Gold Lion to be his successor the Magic Stance should be kept by him too and get the Holy Fire Tablet from Persia's Ming Sect He wanted your God father to be his successor Since you're his God-son it doesn't matter to learn his kung-fu But, how long should it take? It's written that for ordinary people, it takes 30 years For those great kung-fu masters It just takes 3 hours I have the base of Great Solar Stance I just need 3 hours Go ahead then King of Green Bat, you're hurt Don't waste it... Where are the women?... Over there Do you want me to eat your blood? We're the red cross We come to save He's bleeding Beat him You come to save, don't you? We save those from strong sex desire and to save those who reincarnated wrongly How? Kill you and let you reincarnate again Kill him You bastard, if I were not hurt seriously I would kill you Old bluffer I've stopped the bleeding for you King of White Eagle you're really something We break even Dad, he's hurt Why don't you kill him? He fought against five, instead, he won If we take such chance how can we claim ourselves heroes? Stop What's the matter? You don't attack We, Wah-shan School will attack now Men, remove your rings and chains Women, undress Or, you'll be killed I can't imagine I'd be bullied by such jerks Old bluffer, let's fight together for our beloved sect The Evil Sect is going to be terminated Chi-yu, go with your sisters to kill all the people from Evil Sect and extinguish their holy fire Yes, Master King of White Eagle you're a great kung-fu master Your Eagle's Claws Stance in the world of martial arts is as great as the Dragons Claws Stance of Shaolin You'd better commit suicide Old Bluffer, don't be so impulsive Listen I, Chang Mo-kei request you to stop for a while Mo-kei, aren't you dead? Is he the son of So-so? That's your grandson?! Thank you for your concern Today, the fight between Ming Sect and the schools is all a trap set by Shing Kwun the master of Tse Shun Please keep calm and not fall into his trap Bullshit, the Evil Sect is so brutal Wai Yat-siu needs blood for practicing Tse Shun killed many innocent people they should be killed Yes, I need blood for practicing but I need chick's blood pig's blood and my blood only On that night Mrs. Ho of Kwun-lun school was killed by you I didn't bite her About manslaughter?! Old nun, you killed more than me You Shing Kwun serves Yuen he wants us to kill among ourselves Master, I hope you'll understand As you said Where is Shing Kwun now? He went undercover in Shaolin for over 20 years He's masked How dare you frame my Uncle Yuen Chun? Where's Yuen Chun? He sneaked into the graveyard and wanted to steal the Magic Stance Master Yeung was dragged to death by him Siu Chiu, make it clear Grandfather I won't let anybody hurt you Kid, you insulted Shaolin what a big mouth you're having Try my Dragon's Claws Stance Master, would you let us go if I can defeat you? Deal So go ahead The Dragon's Claws Stance of Shaolin is powerful than our kung-fu This guy is really powerful If I have 6,000 points He has at least 1 0,000 points Dragon's Claws Stance OK. Terminate my kung-fu now I just come to stop your fight Not to create any more troubles By the way I used the kung-fu of Shaolin It's not an insult at all Please forgive me OK. Let's go Chang Mo-kei, let me challenge you They pushed my dad to death Now, they come to slaughter without reasons I have to take revenge for dad No way, if I duel with them it's being trapped by Shing Kwun Want to hold my temper to be supreme I can fight against the Government Watch out you should take care of her sword Right, don't fight with her Master, please go ahead Magic Stance Damn you nun Siu Chiu Yes Thank you, mister Brother Mo-kei in fact I was forced to trap you Please forgive me I've never minded that Please bring this sword to your master Anybody wants to challenge me again? Chi-yu Brother Mister Mister, don't die... Mo-kei Let's attack them together I'm sure we can kill him His girl is so pretty Rape her Who dares to take their advantage Who is going to be Wu-tong's enemy Just a misunderstanding Let's call for hookers Don't rape You're the bastard, let's go Mister, you can't die. Don't leave me I'm protected by Great Solar Stance I won't die But I can't use my kung-fu in this week Mo-kei, take a good rest If you have time come back to visit Master Chang Since we protected you we've gone against the other schools We should leave as early as possible or we'll be blamed of being allied with Evil Sect So what? Who do you think you are? Maybe, we'll save your Wu-tong one day What are you bull-shitting? Ching-su Uncle please bring the Yee Tin Sword to Master Chang don't let No-mercy get it anymore Alright Mister Mo-kei Go Take care Mister Yau Tin Tsing, Wai Yat-siu and Elements Flags, greet Master Chang I'm not your master It's a tradition that whoever uses Magic Stance is our master Our Sect has been split in all these years Two Fairies King of Gold Lion and Queen of Purple Dragon they left after fighting for the leadership You saved us today Other than you who is qualified to be the Master then? But Master Yeung's will was my God-father to be his successor Either you or your God-father is the same You Highness Wah-shan School is coming back with a troop they want an attack Damn it, what a bastard I'm Chu Yeun-chang now it's an emergency that please instruct us what to do Since many of you are hurt we'd better hide up in the graveyard What do you think? If you're willing to be our master We will do whatever you instruct Listen, my followers Get to the graveyard and hide up first After we've recovered we'll take our revenge Bravo, Holy Master... Wonderful It's really a blessing to have you be our leader Chu Yuen Chang, I just take the post temporarily for my God-father May I be frank although you kept on refusing to be the Master I could tell from your eyes you're willing to be the Master We have so many followers and we fight with the gov't continuously we have strong power Since you want to take revenge after being the master you'll have greater chance to take revenge and you may turnover Yuen's Dynasty and to be the King It's not impossible Cut the crap King of White Eagle is old King of Green Bat is so care free They can't assist you much No matter what Just instruct me, I'm willing to help From your eyes I can see you're ambitious If I make you my right hand you'll have better success You're really wise I do want to be the Master But the wise people is usually disgusting I understand Get out of here Master, please let us go Wah Shan is a decent school but with you jerks Master, don't kill us I'll tell you some secret Go ahead We've got some information the days before Wu Tong's students were attacked by some monks They seem to be from Shaolin All the students from Wu-tong were caught Don't be afraid they're just being kidnapped not being raped Master we've discovered that Mr. Yan of Wu-tong is hurt He is ahead Uncle Yan Master Uncle Yan Mo-kei How are you? We met some Shaolin monks on our way back to Wu-tong They poisoned us with Scent which is the most poisonous thing in this world of martial arts those who smell or are it'll lose his kung-fu and energy Only the special antidote can solve it I held my breathe, so I could escape My brothers were all arrested But later, I met two monks They were so powerful I was seriously hurt They broke all my joints They're so cruel Let's go to Shaolin and get my uncles back It's sold up Right All hired? Right Yes, you may ask them Over there? Master, all the doctors around are hired and all the herbs are all bought by one person It's strange It may be done by the Shaolin monks No, he's living nearby a place called Green Willow Villa Master I think, they're sure that we need herbs to cure Yan So they set this trap for us Green Willow Villa? Welcome My master is long waiting for you May I know his name? You'll know it later Damn it, do you want to trap us? Speak up, or I'll suck your blood My men's blood is stink If you want it I've prepared some fresh blood for you What's so mysterious Why don't you tell us your name? I'm Chao Min a nobody in the world of martial arts It's meaningless to you If you're scared, please leave Watch out Mister, she's the one we met in the restaurant Grandfather, King of Bat she's the master of Jinxes There may be a severe fight later You're really something Couldn't think you're so powerful when I saw you last time I can't imagine you could defeat the schools and be the master of the Ming Sect What a young hero May I know why did you buy all the herbs and hire all the doctors? I've heard that Mr. Yan is hurt by Shaolin I'm afraid he'd be mistreated by poor doctors so, I caught all the poor doctors here But instead I've prepared the Black Jade Paste for him Mister We're not friends, why do you help us? Making friends with heroes is always the practice of our Yuen Government You're the No.1 kung-fu master in the world this doesn't mean anything The Black Jade Paste is the most wonderful medicine in the world How can she give us that easily? You're Manchurian My dad is Emperor Yu Yang Shaolin is so foolish to challenge you We'll help you to terminate them Master, is it Yee Tin Sword? Right We'll settle our own matters We don't want the interference from the government Thank you very much Master Chang, please stay I've prepared some food for you I'll get changed first, may I be excused We're leaving Are you sure there is Black Jade Paste? Damn it, how cocky she is! Isn't it true or not? It smells nice It's nice This may be a trap, we'd better go You... Master, we're so tired We lost our energy They're poisoned My brothers were all poisoned by this I'm the only one who held the breath What we can do? I'll get the antidote from her Siu Chiu, take care of here You do keep your promise You come to drink with me Why do you trap us? Master Chang, no one asked you to touch the wooden sword It's because one of you is greedy That's why they're poisoned Bring me the antidote Master Chang, are you begging me? Or forcing me? Where are the Jinxes? Ask them out Are you scared of them? I won't tell where they are So you'll be scared Don't think that I won't beat you because you're woman I know, so, I decided to... attack first Yuen is such powerful that it has the greatest territory You're just a man How can you beat our government? The totalitarianism of Yuen is hated by the people I just work for the will of people We have voluntary armies to fight against Yuen It's the will of the people Can you beat the will of the people? Master Chang why not play a song with me? Stop playing I love it Master Chang, do you want to see my leg? Just tell me Why do you take my shoe? You're so cunning how can you claim yourself heroic? I'm not hero I'm a cunning woman Have you heard that? Woman is cunning! I won't argue with you If you don't give me antidote I'll burn your Green Willow Villa I won't give in a damn but your fellows are seriously poisoned If they can't get the antidote within 2 hours they can never regain their kung-fu Time is running short Jinx's Palm This isn't Jinx's Palm Yes, I don't know it I just want to scare you If I didn't take back half energy you'd have been killed You don't wish to kill me You like me Bull shit You love your maid more? or love me more? If you still don't give me the antidote I'll kill you Go ahead Answer me, or I won't give you antidote You I know you love that maid most But I have made No-mercy go there How cunning are you! Go, if you go like this your fellows' kung-fu can never be regained I have no choice Give me or not? No Once more, are you giving me? No matter how, I won't give it to you Aren't you scared of me? I'll be your woman sooner or later I don't need to resist Anyway, no one will help me You can do whatever you want Shameless Chang Mo-kei, I can give you antidote and the Black Jade Paste But you've to promise me three things Master where are those people of Ming Sect? They seem to be disappeared Master, look No-mercy again Siu Chiu, leave us alone No, Mister asked me to stay here No matter how, I have to delay You bastards what evil deeds are you planning? Master, they seem to be poisoned Damn you, if you dare to come over I'll drink all your blood What are you looking? I have too much blood it's alright to spit some out I have let you go once Now, I have a chance to kill the evils for the world of martial arts Master it's not heroic to take such advantage Bitch, get lost Bitch, if you can resist stances from me I'll let you kill How dare you Or, I'll take three stances from you I'll let you do whatever you want if you defeat me What a sharp tongue If you can resist three of my stances I'll let you go Come on Siu Chiu... How are you?... Are you alright? I can stand it Two more Master, she's seriously injured Why not let me kill her? I should not take my words back I dare not Siu Chiu, leave us alone One more You're looking for death I can't help you Siu Chiu Mister Go King of Bat, take the antidote to them Mo-kei why did Chao Min give you antidote? Be careful of tricks I wanted her to take 3 in front of me It should be real Siu Chiu Mister What a couple Bitch, how dare you come? Why not? Your Master promised to do 3 things for me That's why I give him the antidote to save your lives Mister I just promised to do 3 things which aren't against conscience Not against heroism I won't let you marry such pretty girl Siu Chiu Isn't it against conscience? Master Chang, not that easy When I have something in mind I'll look for you I've never met such cunning woman! This woman must be a great foe of our Ming Sect There must be some stories behind the raid against Wu-tong by Shaolin We have to go to Shaolin Temple now to get the truth Master, are you alright? Master No-mercy Emperor Yu-yang wants you to be his guest After you Why is it so quiet? Master Chang Mo-kei together with King of White Eagle and King of Green Bat want to meet your master Our Master has his order he doesn't want to see anyone We come a long way to here We want to see him now. It's urgent Please tell your master He doesn't want to see you Go back Wait, from your movement it doesn't seem to be the kung-fu of Shaolin You have your head newly shaved You aren't a real monk I said he's fake Master, let's go in and check it out OK Mister, look Kill Shaolin first, then Wu-tong We, Ming Sect is the supreme of the world of martial arts It's a trap Are all the kung-fu masters of Shaolin killed? They may be poisoned by Scent I think most of them may be nabbed Shit What is the matter? Kill Shaolin then Wu-tong They must have gone to Wu-tong Let's hurry there Do you want to leave? Not that easy Master, you'd better leave first Master, what's the matter? Hung Shang from Shaolin wants to meet Master Chang Follow me Master Shaolin has had the greatest disaster We were raided by the Evil Sect Other than me no one is alive Really? The kung-fu Masters who launched a raid to the Bright Summit were all arrested by the Evil Sect Master Chang, if you don't do something the whole world of martial arts will be under the control of Evil Sect Get up first Watch out, Master The monk is fake He's from the Evil Sect Where is your dad and your uncles? Master Mo-kei didn't die He joined the Evil Sect and learnt lots of Evil Magic My dad and 4 uncles were not prepared they're assassinated by him Five of them... Master! Ching su, what happened? Master Ching su, how dare you assassinate me? Even a scapegoat couldn't cheat you Master you should be the man of the world You're a great in kung-fu It's not wise to be a Taoist here Why not follow me to work for the government to enjoy prosperous life together You?! Chang San Fung, do you remember us? I see, the troubles in all these years were designed by the government Right, you're right Our Majesty wants to make you the Pope of our government If you're willing to work for us your school will enjoy prosperity together and your students will be the generals to settle the riots for my government I, Chang San Fung, dare do everything but not to be a tribal betrayer Chang, you don't work for us all you have to do is to only go to hell Don't panic I just want to scratch my back Chang, how much blood do you have? Protect Master Don't. Let me handle it Magic Stance Master Master, are you alright? Mo-kei How are you? Ching-su, that bastard assassinated me Why are you so powerful? You asked me to keep my virtue I haven't used that Every morning it's erected No woman likes me That's why I'm still a virgin You have chance, use it Cut the crap Your Highness How can you be that impolite to Master Chang? How are you, Master Chang? I'm Chao Min Your Highness Master Chang, don't be tough Do you want your students to be killed? Men should die once but we should die meaningfully Master, don't panic. I'm here Master Chang, do you remember? You're promised to do 3 things for me Will you keep your promise? If only they aren't against conscience and not heroic I'll help First you can't use the Great Solar Stance Just tie himself up, alright? What a sharp tongue I'll seal your mouth sooner or later Second, don't use your Magic Stance Alright, I promise Mo-kei what kind of kung-fu will you use? Whatever, Master Teach me any kung-fu of Wu-tong? Isn't it alright? It's alright Master, come on Tai Chi, grows from nothing Master, you start that so late I couldn't stand. Quick Mo-kei, now I teach you my self-developed tactics since 1 00-year-old Tai-chi Fist It's the origin of motion The origin of everything Positive and negative is connected Can't be separated Elements help each other They are against each other Keep calm Mind your respiration Concentrate your mind Pay full attention Turn soft to hard Use both soft and hard In Tai-chi There is soft and hard Use both soft and hard Generate the force as you wish Mo-kei, you're protected by the Great Solar Stance You can learn all kinds of kung-fu quickly Tai-chi, just remember it's meaning not the stance Forget all your stances Thus you can make it Can your remember? I've forgotten What is the name of these stances? Forgot What's the surname of your dad? Forgot OK, just remember to beat them with no mercy Congratulations you have such a good student You have a good grandson too I'll let you go now This should be the third thing Chang Mo-kei I won't let you repay me that easily The lives of the schools are controlled by me If I don't go back within three days they'll all be killed What do you want? Today, you're lucky, let's go Not that easy Don't go OK, I won't go I'll stay here or more days You'd better prepare the funerals for your friends You may go but Ching-su can't Your Highness, don't leave me Such heartless dog It's useless for me to keep it Take it if you like Master, I deserve to be killed I'm useless Master, just let me go How can you face your dad? Mo-kei... Since we grow up together Please beg Master to let me go, please Mo-kei Uncle Sung has a son only If I kill you he'll have no descendant Alright Master, I've terminated all his kung-fu Please let him stay alive Alright Master, thank you Thank you... Chang Mo-kei you still have to do one thing for me Remember if you want to save the schools come to the capital to look for me
