 

                        MATSU Takako ABE Sadawo TANAKA Lena Good morning SUZUKI Sawa How's it going? A lot colder today - Napa cabbage - It's in season ANDO Tamae With the temperature down, they're heavier EBARA Yuka I'm sure they're sweeter KIMURA Tae SHOUFUKUTEI Tsurube Development Producer SASAKI Shiro Director of Photography YANAGIJIMA Katsumi Cell phone's ringing Lighting SUZUKI Kosuke I can't find the phone! Sound SHIRATORI Mitsugu You know where it is Production Design MITSUMATSU Keiko Editor MIYAJIMA Ryuji Scripter NAKANISHI Momoko Costume Designer KOBAYASHI Miwako Hair Designer SAKAI Mutsuki The 1st Assistant Director KUMA Shinji Come, come inside me! Production Manager SHIRAISHI Osamu Little Shirais swimming inside me Give it to me next time, too Yours, I want inside me every time Your receipt's inside Right Morning Good morning Ready? Great leeks Music more rhythm - In the basket - Thanks Thanks for your business Ready? Story, Screenplay and Direction by NISHIKAWA Miwa Ichizawa Happy 5th Anniversary Unbelievable How this jerk's place lasts 5 years My third place is failing Evening - Come right in! - In the back The difference is up here You opened too many places You're absolutely right, so, please, pay me back the money I loaned you It's so great that your brain is always a clean slate You don't have a single thought, just do whatever Satoko tells you and you're fine Sounds like easy street to me Yoko, are you finished? Don't you get it? I just act like my wife's in charge Really? Don't "really" me Here, eat your tomato - Oh, so tasty - Oh, so tasty Give me the creeps What'll it be? Shochu? You've had enough Hand me the menu Cut it out Why? One order steamed clams Squid Coming right up Two drafts for you Excuse me Yes Master, shochu with water Shochu with... Honey, honey I'll pee myself It's right over there I'm sorry Run! Kan! Satoko! Get up! Get up Let's get out! Where's the boss? Boss! Boss! Dreams fr Sale He spilled it The landlord said no? He's scared of restaurants now Don't wait, get started again now Even if you just rent a small place Serves you right... Pathetic Step up... to a better location... Right? What's left of the insurance and the little we'd saved Take this to his wife again tomorrow It's so little he'd spend it on one night out I can't, they're your savings... Enough Otherwise, you'll just mope around forever Here, feels better, right? It was like this 10 years ago Nothing to be afraid of It's not long Together, it'll go by in a flash There... Ramen That's right You're good That's right, that's right And stock it in that container That's right The barbecued pork in here Tell me when you're low If they order soy sauce ramen, it's one spoon of this And if they want extra oil, If they order less, then half See the mark on the spoon? If you just fill it up to there, that'll be fine Come right in! Not so rough, you'll damage the fish I'm sorry Watch it Excuse me, isn't this sea bream spoiled? No, we just got that yesterday But you can't... Serve it simmered in broth, don't waste it But it's just plain spoiled It's beyond saving by simmering Look at the eyes, and it's lost its shimmer It doesn't feel right Shall we compare it to today's fish? He's a total pain Listen, mister I didn't ask you to lecture me Just do as you're told I'm sorry but I won't handle this fish I couldn't face our former master What century do you live in? Oh, all right Let's toss it Are you happy now? There, it's tossed Calm down! Ichizawa Give it to me Did you fight? He doesn't know how to cook Here? Ouch Miyakubo Police Box Excuse me Ichizawa? Remember me? Hino What? Why? Do you live nearby? We just moved here, into an apartment in Sakaecho Isn't your restaurant in Toranomon? Yeah, it's a little far but we can't afford to buy in that area My wife won't buy unless it's new Your business is great How's Akie? Do you still cook together? You'd think but as soon as it got going, she said she hated standing so much She's even got studs in her nail polish these days, disgusting Everyday she goes to health spas, golf and even pole dancing, whatever that is Women have it so easy Hey, is your place nearby? No, it's a little ways away A little ways away I bet it's doing fine Somebody told me it's great We do OK Show me your place I'll stop by for real Come, I'll contact you I'll email Email, you know my address? Yeah, sure Give my best to Akie Give Akie my best Akie? Oh, right, see you Bye bye Thanks Thank you! Any word from Takeshita san? No, it's hopeless I'm sure there's gossip about me Chefs turn over so fast, you'll get another offer soon You wanted me to work at Takeshita's place? That place is shit What do you see in it? Really? I don't know I've never been there Yeah? Then, I'll tell you That place is shit Worse than shit I understand No, you don't Maybe you think as long as they pay you they're all the same But you're lucky You can work in this mediocre ramen shop and feel nothing Hey, don't say that I'll have a beer Sure Please, drink at home It's on the house Thanks Sato does a great job Thank you Thanks Damn, that's good He's a good man Yes He's nice? You let him call you "Sato" It's fine, you should marry someone like him What is it? I don't satisfy you? No, of course you satisfy me I'm the one that doesn't satisfy you I bet you think you got stuck with the short end of the stick If you stay with the likes of me, nothing good will come of it Yo! Come right in! Please, come in One BBQ pork ramen Me, too Fried rice for me That was tasty, thanks! Half a fried rice And 3 fired dumplings Another fried rice Yes And half a rice Open your eyes, Daddy! You promised to take us to the hot springs! We'll go I'm here to see him, representing the company But his sudden downturn yesterday has upset his family Only his family is allowed How long do I have to wait? When he improves Will he improve? I don't think he will improve I'll handle this You're Mutsushima san? My brother told me about you, right before he lost consciousness My brother and I didn't have secrets I think he just had to tell someone about you But I don't think my sister-in-law or my nieces need to find out What is this? It's, it's from my brother In case he never saw you again The last train will depart from Track #1 Are you OK? I think that was the last train Are you OK I'm sorry, I'm sorry I'm fine, fine Hey! It's you, Master! Hey, I went to your place today... What the hell happened It was all burned to a crisp What happened? You came? With Tonoike san? Who? Section Chief Tonoike Are you OK? I'm closing the station I'm sorry Oh, hey, hey... Why? Why? Oops, I'm sorry I'm sorry, shit I'm sorry, what the... Say, is Kan with you? Oh, I see He seems to have wandered off Sorry No, he's not Will you be able to open the place back up? No, I'm not so sure, honestly How's your wife? Oh, she's all get-up-and-go She's working a part-time job, never complaining Wives are so amazing They sure are I can't stand watching her I think it's now or never She's not a beauty queen, but she could still grab another chance at life If I were alone, I could screw up and die in a ditch But if I'm with her, I'd just feel, you know, sorry for her I'm sorry... I don't think she'll buy it Because no woman can bear to suddenly have her lover die on her Hey Ichizawa san Hand me my handbag Yeah The inside pocket Why don't you take it? What... What is this? Consolation money So fast! No, no, no, no, it's not right I can't accept this, no way! OK, OK, then, can I ask you another favor? Ouch Thanks You OK? I'm fine, fine You done? I'm done Good luck with your new place Are you sure? I trust you I'll pay you back My best to your wife I swear I'll pay you back I ran into an old kitchen mate! The world's not so bad after all I can pay him back anytime Hey, count it! We can use it to rent a place and start renovations Look! I thought... You weren't coming home... Oh, no, you fool! First our castle Build us a real castle Where did you wash your clothes? "Rei, I'm so sorry it turned out this way "Be well, always "I pray for your happiness From Tonoike" Tonoike san is... Rei is... Oh... I didn't know Consolation money? Don't know So you were at Rei's place? It's not about where I was! Is your hand OK? Did your burn it? I can understand For Rei to get all this money, she must have felt really rotten Yeah, I think so But I'm glad If she hadn't run into you she might have been bright red ground meat on a train track by now Don't scare me The water's hot Please turn it off Listen, tell me what you did I didn't do anything No, no it was very normal Normal, I mean less than normal Did her vulnerability seduce you into spilling your troubles? Not my troubles... You blabbed about our dirty laundry Told her we were finished, too? I didn't say that It's hot Oh, I get it What do you get? Shimazu Yes, you can eat it that way The vegetables are delicious Thank you What exactly do you do at that company, sister? You said you want to write non-fiction That's why I keep asking even the president, for a transfer to the new magazine department But nothing's changed, even once You just doodle with the website and arrange the president's lunches You're past 30 now Why don't you consider marriage? There are a lot of bachelor doctors in my husband's hospital Listen, the thing is, I don't think marrying a doctor or a politician is a path to happiness Did mom and the others put you up to this? Not especially, but, I'm sick of watching Mom be depressed all the time from worrying about you She's past 60 now Do you ever think about that? You're just numb because you still live at home It's clean You can't even put a child to bed? Incredible What an idiot I told you, not to get her excited The pits You're useless Forget it, let me talk to her Are you OK? Your bag... Are you OK? - There - Thanks Thank you so much Please take care We'll be waiting for you It was delicious This city's dark terrain is strewn with countless stars which have lost their light I don 't need for you to be a perfect man But every thing has its own one in a mill ion timing If you just manage to seize that, I'm sure you can be a small sun, shining I ight on those stars Everyone 's lonely, burdened with heartbreak Whate ver we ha ve today, in position, money, or personal connections, isn 't enough to change the course of our I ives There 's no visible future I don 't e ven want to think about my I ife 1 0 years from now I wonder why My own existence, feels as light as a bird 's wing Sorry Y o u O K? You, you understand, don 't you? It 's a miserable life but with you, I can laugh If I can I i ve with you, e ven the darkness will seem bright There 's no need to lie You too, can re veal the reality you 've been burdened with for so long I f I kn ew I ' d s i n k so I ow as th e sh i tty assho I e I a m now, I wou I d h ave j u m ped i nto th at fi re and bu rned to death with my pl ace That's not true, please that's not true I'm OK, I'm OK now I've decided I can only look ahead now Save up little by little for my new place, and make enough money so I can let my wife start her own life Then, Satsuki... I finally feel ready to rebuild my life I had some luck left You found it for me A little dream goes a long way A little, a little, just a little Give them a lovely dream Yesterday, that refrigerator stopped chi I l i ng correctly Oh, real ly? The electrician's comi ng tomorrow morning so I'll clean it out Thanks Happy to Fresh bamboo shoots The sweet stars, the gleaming stars Let's add a little color to their brilliance Si mmered scorpion fish If you do, I'm sure they'll all shine for you O K, I ' m rea I ly fi ne I ' m rea I ly fi ne No, you ' re not! Wait! I'm fi ne! No you're not I don't want it! I told you that's not what I want! Oh, I'm sorry Promissory Note Loaned by Sonobe Masumi Loaned to Ichizawa Kanya I don't want anythi ng so formal You wrote up this document This real ly isn't what I had in mind I real ly don't need it Oh, no, stop, stop! Is it moving? Now the question! Who discovered Sakhalin So sweaty... was an island in the early 19th century? Oh, that was Mamiya Ri nzo It wasn't a Japanese Y es it was It was a Russian Watch T olkachev Sorry, the correct answer is Mamiya Rinzo See? Wow Right? Question! You just relax Say, Kanya I've got some savings set aside I've I ived off my parents so long But for me to loan you money now, wouldn't be quite right It'd be like, I was buying you with money or something Hey wait a minute I never brought that up But I'm agonizing over it I don't want to go home to my folks house now, and honestly, I don't like you going home to your wife But then, If I hand you money to get rid of your wife, that's just jumping to a conclusion I hate myself for even thinking about that as a solution I'm sure that deep down, what your wife wants isn't really money, either Kanya? You're still out? What? That's why you called? It doesn't matter anymore What? What do you mean? I don't want you to misunderstand I don't want you to come up with the money for me But then, if you ask me if I can make things work right now, so I can live separately from my wife, the answer is "No, " unless I rob a bank Asking you to wait is just too cruel and it's obvious that it's fraying both our nerves I'm just so happy that I could fall so deeply in love with someone Which is why I can't stand my feelings getting all messed up over the money So I'm asking you, please don't stay involved in this What? Hey, hello? Satsuki, you were so worried about me, but you never... If you... If you get sick of waiting for me, and gradually wear down... I can't bear to see you like that! I want at least you to be happy! Hey, hey, wait That's not why I brought it... It was a short time, but thank you for everything What? My memories with you, I'll treasure all my life No! Stop it, how did this happen? Kanya? Hello! Hello! Kanya! Say, hello Hello... I'm heading out Thanks Ichizawa? He quit Promissory Note Let's work hard Open our place as soon as we can and pay them back double He's not the type who can do that Yes, he could never lie Exactement! He's so gentle I'm so sorry, everyone I'll speak to him about it You're wrong. Actually, he hadn't been feeling well Oh, residual pain from the fire No, he hit his head as a child He has a tumor like this in his head which can really hurt him sometimes Yes, I recommended a doctor to him Maybe I went with him... Rental Space on River Front Sky Tree View This one is really big In here, we could build a circular counter in the middle, made from a plank of unvarnished wood Unvarnished wood is a pain! When we worked at Yoshida, we always had to polish it Yoshida... Yeah, Yoshida! Just like that place Hey, this is residential There aren't any kitchen stations That riverfront, with views of the Sky Tree, is really going to heat up with people and stores, soon I'm sick of furnished places with bad taste But we can't even open a place like this for less than 10 million And pay back... Hey, cut it out We got this far Listen, I'm betting my life on this This is my last chance There's no point in compromising Shit, why do you always blame me! Die! The hell! I'll kill you! I'll beat the shit out of you! Cut it out! The suspects arrested in the alleged assault are Sasaki Yosuke and his wife, Harue, both unemployed According to the in vestigation, they became enraged when their oldest daughter, Anna, spit out her food this month, and put her feet in the baby bath filled with scalding water H ow co u I d they do i t together? O ne of them shou I d 've stopped it She was j ust 2 years old They're total ly twisted They should get the same treatment How awful Employment Counseling Hel lo, I'm cal ling from Hello Work, about the jobs at Tomari-an Two people are here applying Yes, that's right One for the manager and chef and the other to wait on customers They're both experienced An older brother and his sister Yes, his sister Can you please check that the place will totally be in our hands? I'll ask And what the average sale per customer is? And the percentage of female customers? Hello, excuse me Tomari-an For real? For you and for me For sure? I'm even performing at Suzunari That's all fine and good but I've heard... Mrs. Wonderful Terumi, age 30 To cleanse us from our sins, to welcome us to our heavenly home Hel lo T erumi? Y es, shal I we go? No one other than Jesus can cleanse us from our sins I ' m head i ng out Thanks There are 1 0 more m i nutes left of free time Try to change your partners as often as possible, to meet as many people as you can Is weight lifting in the Olympics? Yes Do you try out for that? Last time, I had an accident and it didn't work out But I'm trying out for next time Amazing! I never met an Olympic athlete before I'm not one yet I'll have my picture taken with you What's the most you've lifted? Um, the most is 142 kilograms weighs! Here goes OK, Cheese Strike out, huh? Where were all the men? Eastern Japan Women 's Weight Lifting Success Set your weights to 1 44 kilograms Exhale slowly Inhale deeply Breathe again Weight 1 44 kilograms #5, High School teacher, Minagawa Hitomi's 3rd try Go get 'em! I'll do my best! Amazing, amazing! Success That concludes the Women's Clean and Jerk Competition Actually, today's the first day that I ever Iifted that much weight Wow, so you don't lift championship weights everyday No, every time I lift that much, it damages my body So the competition is everything I train with much lower weights I get it, it's like kitchen prep Yes, I think that's right Didn't you want to quit when you wounded your knee? Yes, I stopped leaving the house because nothing good would happen You rotted away Everything around me, made me wish, if I only I hadn't lifted it Like, always the same dream Right! You'll eat one more dish? Yes Brother, what's this? Time to split? I'm going to the ladies room Sure What? What's wrong? What? I just... You're going after that? She was your idea I know that I just started feeling sorry For who? For her? No, no, no Who? Me? I mean, can you do it with her? I mean, there's a limit If I were a man, I don't think... I mean, she's sweet How can you say that? What? You feel sorry? I feel much more sorry for the world you see through your eyes I'll do my best! Asian Weight Lifting Qualifying Rounds Success She set a new record for the Clean and Jerk competition Let's congratulate her with applause Minagawa's Clean and Jerk record lift was 146 kilograms Amazing That wasn't the weight of steel but your 15 years effort I feel like I'm watching a human create a miracle It makes me all excited to think maybe I can do something like it It's not a miracle Honestly, when I think about the future, I wonder how long I can keep lifting weights Why? Why do you say that? If I keep at it, this is all I'll know Thinking I could die not knowing anything about an ordinary life, makes me feel totally inferior Ordinary life, meaning get married and have babies? You can't have that doing what you want? Do what you want! What's to feel inferior? But that's... Impossible It's not impossible, you just think it is! You can carry your baby and push your father's wheelchair and all go to the Olympics together That's... Meet Terumi at Camellia Cafe at 7 Any handover today? Don 't forget promissory note Hang in there, Satoko I've got to go Sleep i n tomorrow You won 't stay over? Satoko isn 't feel i ng wel I these days What, what's wrong? It's not a big deal What is it? It's fine Happy birthday to you Happy birthday to you Happy birthday, dear Daddy Congratulations on turning 60 Happy birthday to you That's it But I probably can't call you next year I'm thinking of studying abroad Well, maybe Canada I'm still deciding My loan? I mostly paid it back But Daddy, if my husband visits, don't tell him about this call Oh, it's my job Well, it doesn't really matter At least I'm alive Be well, give my best to Ako Don't get drunk and kick her again Yes Oh, hello Oh, I see it Want some gum? I'm fine Do you do this to your wife? Do me like you do your wife Call your wife's name Can't we just lie down? Call her name Sa... Satoko! Hey! "The breeze blows, "a letter arrives "I'm happier "than anyone else "Please don't go "Stay in my arms "forever and ever" Hello Hello I'm Kanna It's all right, I'll be nice What do you like? Tell me, tell me, anything! Hello Hello I'm really sorry What, my ride already left? I mean, how am I supposed to get home? What's this area called? Sorry, I don't really know either You don't? But you're riding on? Right, but I'm sure we'll get somewhere Right What's your name? You mean, Kanna? Not your real name? Really, I'm Noriyo, age 34 Kanna is 25 - What do you do? - What? What do you do? A chef You're a trained chef? That's cool Hey, should I call you Noriyo or Kanna? Noriyo Cancer/Heart Disease Ovarian Cancer Breast Cancer I think that my brother probably respects you, Hitomi What, respects? I don't deserve that No, I think it's great, too That you can do something no one else can But you're the one who's irreplaceable Actually, your brother is deeply grateful I deserve his gratitude for what I do for him But life just isn't magnetic enough to pull someone in I'm sure that's because I'm just catching a ride on his life Hitomi If you don't make your own way in life, Iife will pull a mean trick on you Satoko san, did something happen? I heard you aren't feeling well Oh... What! Oh, no, you'll get better, right? I'm sorry, Hitomi I know you have your own troubles Why? What about the hospital? Surgery? My brother's taking it hard Will you please support him? Hello Sorry A glass of water, please I got a delivery order just before my shift ended Here My sympathies Minagawa Hitomi What is this? What do you mean, what? What did you say to get this? Are we investing our time and effort in sympathy money? You're supposed to marry her What's Hitomi thinking? She's thinking properly She's not trying to keep me with money Besides, your illness and surgery bit is just revolting It's not a joke A joke? What's a joke? Nothing we've done is even close to a joke You like that new space, right? The place on the river with the Sky Tree views? You're going to make a cool, big counter, buy all new fixtures and furniture and make a really cool place I realized you're exactly right I stink It's better not to work at all than work in a mediocre ramen shop We don't have enough We're not even close You're terrifying What's that? You make it sound like you're not involved Who are you doing this for? I never said, a word about that Listen, what is it you want to do? What do you really want? What is that question? You don't care about our place You do? Of course You liar Just hold on I'll tell you What you don't have enough of isn't money but revenge Because you've dedicated your whole life to me And there's nothing you hate more than privileged women who suit themselves, skimming off of another woman's husband and loving it Deep down, you want to torture to death all the women along with me, me, who sticks my face into their crotches It's written all over your face You have the best face now, of all the time you've been with me Thanks It's 6 already What's going on! I don't know If that's what you think, that's fine with me We're happiest when our customers trust us with their problems Interest rates from J ust tel I me how much it wi I l cost Doesn 't i nsurance cover anyth i ng? Is it an experi mental treatment? You thi nk the treatment's not covered? Insurance even covers expensive treatments, didn't you know? My dad's been in and out of hospitals so I know a little about it It's the national health plan, right? If she's scheduled to check-in, apply to the plan's committee They can issue you a Maximum Coverage certificate Show that when she checks in and you only have to pay the co-pay There's another system for out of hospital treatments, too... Sorry, I'll write it down Who asked you for a pompous lecture? With major surgery, there are all kinds of other expenses I have to take off work and there are other things I can't take it anymore It's painful for her to stand I don't understand your mumbo jumbo Don't you care how I feel! I'm sorry Forget it, I'm going home I'm revolted No, wait No, don't! I'm going home! Home! No! Stay! Sorry Stay back Kanya san, are you scared of me? No Did you think I'd hit you? Do you think I'm a monster? No, I don't I am not a monster I'm not a monster! Cut it out Cut it out One day I noticed that she constantly had fevers and when she was diagnosed it was too late But then a doctor told us about this brand new treatment recently developed in America that might help her Sorry, did you say 3 million? Right now, I could manage 1. 2 But that's nowhere near enough If I work hard next month, maybe I could manage 300, 000 I could go to a loan shark, but my husband bled me dry so my reputation sucks Is 1. 2 million OK? Will it help? In that case, if you add up this and this it'll be about... Nori, is this the way you've lived your life? What about studying abroad? Weren't you going to Canada? Oh, that doesn't matter This is this and that's that You're sick Maybe I am... What? Please stop Really, please Open up, bitch Hey! Please stop the violence Think of the landlord You don't live here Don't touch me! Yes, I live here What's this? You a pervert? Try them on, huh Please don't Open up! No one is here! Hey, Nori! If you don't get out here, I'll strangle this prick! Ouch, ouch, don't! This is just a storage room You seem fine, Nori How did you get here? Bullet train? The Maserati you bought on my credit card Hot, hot, hot! Close it, Ichizawa san, close it! So you're going to hitch up with her? That's right Can you really make her happy? I plan to Don't plan it, tell her, tell her so she knows Oh, well, yes You see, I, um... Hey, hey, both of you Cut this out Who's going to make me happy? Did you make me happy? Ichizawa san, too Did I ask you to make me happy? I'm already happy now It's not much but I'm standing on my own two feet If I've settled for my own life, I don't need anyone praising me So, I'm sorry I ran away But, please let me go Hey, Satoko You'll catch cold The alarm... Wow I see It feels great Oh, thank you, sir What do you think, Mrs.? It feels great Can we use that, too? Yes, the deck, too Nice Kafu, you've got so big Are you 1 year old? OK, OK, stop, stop, enough Don't push it, don't push it Down, down Orthopedic Surgery Ward I'm really fine This wound won't affect my daily life I guess deep down, I was looking for an excuse to quit I won't lift 140 kilos anymore and I'm not an Olympics contender, but I have no regrets Open the drawer Use this Satoko san is the one who needs a cure I'll be able to walk again soon I'm strong, you can count on me Hitomi, listen... What? I... I... Why? Why are you crying? Did you quit because of me? Was it me? That's not right No, don't give up Your dream is special Your dream is special His name is Kanayama Toshio, age 75 He called about 1 hour ago, saying his left side wasn't moving You'll be fine Just wait here, OK? We can't find your mother yet I'll tell the nurse to have her come later Grandpa... Grandpa's working hard Be a good boy, and wait, OK? Security Ouch Come at me Keita? You say I'm home Welcome home, Keita I'm home Welcome I'm home Hello Thank you Found the super? Right away Welcome home I'm home Your food is tasty When did you start working as a cook? Right after graduating high school and coming to Tokyo Keita, show it to Grandpa That funny face you made Whose face? So? Really tasty Right? The old man's stroke was light so he's back at work So that's not a financial burden It's her father's house so there's no rent But her husband died, right? How old is the boy? Yeah, they got his life insurance And she's a public servant She's got plenty of income What someone like her needs is someone to help out Once you get used to letting someone take care of you, you can't give it up Yeah, it won't take long at all I mean, she's not the type to snoop around So when the time is right, I'll mention that you're sick Done Sounds promising Work hard Watch the fire I'll be back by 6 See you later See you Dojima Detective Agency It depends on what you want Get your money back or put him in jail That is, if we get unassailable proof that he deliberately lied to you in order to swindle your money How much jail time would he get? The offense is fraud, Iess than 10 years It depends on whether he pays the victims back and how many others he swindled, but I'd say 5 to 6 years How is his prison term judged? It's judged by how long it will take to rehabilitate, I guess Rehabilitate? Well, you know Who is the rehabilitation for? For society's sake or his own? It certainly doesn't concern me Why should I go public for that, and become a laughingstock Will you be laughed at? My family already does Lavish money on a penniless suitor because he dangles marriage, even loan him money It's pathetic You think it's pathetic? My wife happily loaned me 5 million when my business was in trouble, before we married If she actually marries you, it's a heroic story I envy your wife For marrying me? For marrying someone You know, marriage isn't all it's made out to be I know that I'm just tired of being seen as someone who can't even get married You think it's no wonder I can't Seaweed with vinegar, please Just a minute Satoko san Yes Octopus tempura I'm so sorry We can't make that today OK, daikon pickles Coming right up You're so busy Thanks... Sorry to keep you waiting Hello! Yes, it's me, Satoko Have you been well, Father? Yes, the two of us are managing well together He knows he has to work really hard now and he is He's not home yet tonight You know how many friends he has Oh, New Years? Yes We were just saying how nice it would be visit you What? No, I'm fine Oh, no I'm fine Mommy, Kanya You're good Not really Are you OK lady? What's your name again? Keita That's right Keita, can you pull me up, please? Ichizawa Say "Off you go" Makes it easier Off you go That's good, good You're good, Keita This knife is blunt Where did mine go? You're not done yet! Keita! Keita! Where is it? What? Oh, well Ichizawa san? Tanahashi Satsuki is your girlfriend, right? Satsuki, the one you were going to marry... Just a minute! Sorry to bother you when you're busy Excuse me, who are you? Me? I'm... Call me Mister No way, go to her You have to Go! Talk to her! No, talk to her Why are you running away? Hey, you! Why are you running away! Hey, why! Why! Ichizawa Oops, sorry! It's OK Were your pants lowered? They were Say something! I said, say something! I'm sorry, I'm sorry Why! No, no, no That's enough, now I told you no hitting That's a scary face You OK, buddy? Yes Are you sure your face is OK? Ouch Keita Who the hell is Keita? Let go, let go! Keita It's all right, Keita Give it to me, please Thank you, you saved me You're amazing Keita Let go of him! You're wrong Mommy! Are you OK, Keita? Police! What are you doing, Ichizawa san! Let's stabilize the wound You're showing your age, Dojima san You let a rank amateur stab you You're making me sad When I asked him why he had that knife, he said, "I'm a chef, "it was the only thing I escaped from the fire with" What a jerk It was like this... It came out like this and I'm not sure why... You wound up stabbing him from behind It's pretty expensive No, I'll introduce you then Is that cheap? It's cheap Really? So, that? You don't trust me very much do you, Sato? That's not true Shall we ask him? Sato Manager, excuse me but... Sato I have promises to keep Good evening Excuse us Good evening Left, turn left! March in place! Forward march! Move your shoulders forward and relax your arms One clean and 3 lifts OK I kept you waiting Whose birthday was it? You drank a sweet drink? Really? Whose birthday? Take care I apologize about what happened right after I'd asked your opinion Yes, you're right, I am aware of that No, no, no, of course that was not my intention To Mutsushima Reiko Ichizawa MATSU Takako ABE Sadawo TANAKA Lena SUZUKI Sawa ANDO Tamae EBARA Yuka KIMURA Tae ISEYA Yusuke KOBAYASHI Katsuya KAGAWA Teruyuki SHOUFUKUTEI Tsurube Development Producer SASAKI Shiro Special thanks to KORE-EDA Hirokazu Producers MATSUDA Hiroko, NISHIKAWA Asako FUJIKADO Hiroyuki, YOSHIDA Kayo Line Producer OSHIDA Kosuke Director of Photography YANAGIJIMA Katsumi Lighting SUZUKI Kosuke Sound SHIRATORI Mitsugu Production Design MITSUMATSU Keiko Costume Designer KOBAYASHI Miwako Editor MIYAJIMA Ryuji Film Partners BANDAI VISUAL CO., LTD. OFFICE SHIROUS Yomiuri telecasting corp. Asmik Ace Entertainment, Inc. BUNGEISHUNJU LTD. DENTSU INC. EISEI GEKIJO Co., Ltd. Yahoo! JAPAN PAPADO Ennet Inc. Music more rhythm Distribution Asmik Ace Entertainment, Inc. Production OFFICE SHIROUS Story, Screenplay and Direction by NISHIKAWA Miwa 2012 "Dreams for Sale" Film Partners
