 

                        in association with bulgarian National Film Center bulgarian National Television present a Javor Gardev film based on the novel "Zift" by Vladislav Todorov director of photography Emil Christov b.a.c. Production designer Nikola Toromanov Costume designer Daniela Oleg Lyahova Once there was a guy like you who worked here. A septic-truck driver, Kalcho. He got sacked from the Waste Management Department for misconduct. The guy was married, but his wife was a horny bitch. He was green-eyed jealous. One day she goes out to eat white jam with friends. Kalcho follows her secretly. She doesn't go to see her friends, but a pastry-cook, racy as dark chocolate, you can bet... She does the dirty with him - he lives on the ground floor of an apartment building. Kalcho drives up the septic truck, throws the hosepipe through the window, and pumps out the entire load of the tanker. Three tons of feces. Kalcho drives off - shitless. The police get on his stinking trail and arrest him. The investigation report shows two and half tons of fecal matter and half a ton more pulverized over the walls and furniture. A trial begins. They call in the pastry-cook as a witness. The prosecutor asks him: ""And so you're going home to get some rest after work, you open, and... shit! Didn't you feel sickened, didn't you throw up?. " The prosecutor, you see, is trying to establish the moral damages, not only the material ones. ""No, I didn't."" ""How come?. "" ""Just like that, comrade prosecutor. If it were a turd or two, I would've thrown up. but two and a half tons of shit can't even make you queasy."' The point is simple: the bigger the shit, the lesser the damage. The moral damage, that is, not the material one. ZlF (from Arabic)1. Black natural resin. asphalt. Used as filler for road surfaces and as chewing gum. (urban slang) 2. Shit. Six o'clock. Good morning. Voltaire's "Candide" ""Dictionary of Foreign Words" Man - that sounds dignified. Zachary Baharov Tanya llieva Vladimir Penev Mihail Mutafov Djoko Rossich Snezhina Petrova Anastassia Liutova Hristo Petkov lvan Barnev Officer on Duty boyka Velkova Svetlana Yancheva Yosif Shamly Simeon Lyutakov Antoniy Argirov Yordan Slaveikov Stoyan Radev Tzvetan Aleksiev Tsvetan Dimitrov Dimo Aleksiev Yordan Mutafov Velislav Pavlov Veselin Mezekliev Vasil Ryahov Antonia Ara Vladimirova Mariana Makova Ilia Raev Gergana Arnaudova Aleksander Kadiev blagovest Blagoev Pavlin Petrunov Petrunka Dimitrova Danail lvanov Obretenov Hristo Peev Krum Netzov Orhan Tair Ivo Krastev Yavor Vesselinov DJ Ayvan Antonio Dimitrievsky Stefan Stefanov Rositsa Dicheva Marin Nakov Yordan Bikov Ivaylo Dragiev Alexander Dimitrov Stefan Goranov Aleksander lliev No Work, No Food Dimiter Dimitrov Mircho Mirchev Vladislav Todorov Simeon Panov On Your Feet, Toiling Hands. Lily Abadjieva Vasil Abadjiev Milen Aleksiev Sava Dragunchev Nikola Toromanov Yavor Dachkov Rushi Vidinliev Kalin Nikolov Nikolina Yancheva Lyubomir Kovachev Yulian Petrov borislav Mladenov Vasil Yordanov Daniel Velchev Sound Mind in a Sound Body Sixteen o'clock. I'm leaving Sofia Penitentiary with a plan in my head. The plan, as the Soviet saying goes, is a fantasy with a release date. The release date has come. The plan is simple: hop a freight train to Varna, then make off for the tropics in a ship's belly. I was jailed before the Communists coup of '44. They let me go long after it. I'm not sure what exactly happened in '44, except that The Bible was replaced with ""The Dictionary of Foreign Words"'. It was only with the Thaw of '56 that the prison took on a human face and we began to fraternize freely. before I split, I need to visit my son Leonid's grave. I never saw him. He was born and died while I was in jail. I got the news in a letter from his mother. before they locked me up, I lived in the seedy Yuchbunar quarter. I barely remember my parents. I was very young when my father enlisted in the Foreign Legion and vanished somewhere in Africa. I never found out if he did it for money or because he was fed up with us. Around that time my mother died. Of sleeping sickness. I wasted my youth in the can for a murder I didn't commit. Moth, let's go. They dubbed me Moth when I was a kid. I used to hide in closets and suitcases to frighten people. Once you get a nickname, it sticks to you like a bur. Sometime after '44, I began to exercise vigorously my body and mind: I read through the entire prison library to get to the bottom of things and brace myself for the moment when I'd have to embrace freedom objectively. I'm the push-ups Tsar of the prison. When I was young, I'd go watch Dan Kolov wrestle at Yunak Stadium. Those who haven't seen Dan Kolov fight know nothing about life. The zift released its flavor inside my cavities. And that was how l, citizen Lev Kaludov Zheliazkov, walked out to my freedom. I got paroled for introducing communist enlightenment into prison life. I launched a propaganda campaign on my own initiative and thoughtful idea. In the corner of the canteen I stockpiled all sorts of ideologically charged inventory, including plowshares, shafts, and flywheels. The idea suddenly dawned on me, and brought me brand new civilian clothes, a pair of patent-leather shoes, and freedom. They said I was reformed, and let me go before my term was up. Unfortunately, on my way out, I bumped into that shit-face of a warden, Mole Cricket. I couldn't let him pass without ejaculating in his face a fat curse. I unbuttoned my mouth and relieved myself. ""The end starts at the beginning." ""The end starts at the beginning." That thought I picked up and memorized so I can say it when I step out of the can. I wanted to give the moment its due. You can't let such moments pass like that - one leg after the other and you're out. Crossing the threshold is a special occasion, Iike walking under the rainbow and turning into a different person. The car reeks, a funky mixture of motor oil, gunk, and stale sweat. The private behind the wheel has a popped pimple on his nape. Who? - Private Smyadovsky. Who? - Private Smyadovsky. Private!. - Aye. Step on it. Where are we going?. Where are we going?. Who are you? The public bath. Seventeen o'clock. Ladies What do you want?. I want you naked. - How naked? butt-naked. During my first year in prison I befriended this guy - Valentine. He was soft and gentle on the inside, femininely hideous on the out. We always took our meals together. Rumor had it we were a pair of fags. One day, during meal-time, the Mutant, an asshole and a slimy freak of nature, came up with his personal slave, a rachitic creature, and they stood behind our backs. The rickets took out a sheet of paper and started reciting at the top of his illiterate voice Valentine's love letter to someone named ""O." To my master, brother and dear friend, my man most of all, my eternal companion, the first and last one to know my heart. I can never be your bride, but I love you with unbearable intensity!. Valentine. It was then my former cellmate, Van Wurst-the Eye, advised me not to write any letters, love letters especially, because they were looking for a chance to pick up a fight with me and kill me. Van Wurst-the Eye had a glass eye, which would often pop out, especially during boxing matches. Van Wurst, Van Wurst, Van Wurst... Chew him up. Kill him! Yes! After dinner, before the bedtime bell, we would arm-wrestle. At first, Van Wurst regularly beat me, but with time he found it more difficult. You look at the sky, and it looks back at you with its barred eye. You're one dangerous man. With all these tattoos you have no weak spot. being dangerous keeps you safe. If you're not dangerous in the can, you fall victim. Is that why you poked your eye out? No. That was an accident. I lost it during a heist in Barcelona. The jewels were hidden in an antique clock. I fumbled with it, trying to take them out. but the clock struck midnight. The spring leaped out and struck me in the eye. It ran out right there. In Barcelona? - Yes. And they locked me up in the Modelo Prison a panopticon. This eye here on the top of the watchtower, I got it there. Panopticon?. That's right. A round prison. There was this watchtower in the center And cells all around it. No doors. You can't hide. The wardens see everything. Pan-opticon. The eye that sees all. The eye is the fastest thing, Moth. Once you cast a glance, it travels with the speed of light. To hide from it, you have to exceed that speed, which is impossible by nature. There I understood the most important thing. On the way out of the panopticon, a sign meets you: ""Abandon all hope, ye who enter here."' Ha. You get out of the can to enter life's hell. Yes, Moth. Hope is a bird that flies only inside the cage. If you let it free, it dies. There's no hope outside. There's no hope if you don't have a plan. You have one?. - Yes. What is it? - To take off for the tropics. When you take off for the tropics, know that corals are fragile creatures. They die when the filthy human hand touches them. I need peace. To find peace, Moth, you have to cut off your ties with the world. Especially with women. Especially with the Woman. Know that: man is a living coral, until he's touched by the Woman. When the Woman touches him, hell touches him. Hell has already touched me. In Hell or Paradise, the Woman is a rolling dice. I fell in love with Ada when I was 18. A tight-fitting, brilliantly black school-uniform, the aroma of raw milk, mesmerizing eyes, pupils of jet, and eyebrows of pure asphalt. The crotch - invitingly loose, her flesh seeking touch. Her thighs parted shyly, and I peeped in. Her eyes lingered on me, blazing bonfires. Her voice was soft and silky like plum jam, she pulled a hidden trigger inside me. Did you come? I unloaded, as if releasing a jammed torpedo. So began our romance. Moth, have you heard of the lie detector?. When they wire you up during interrogation?. Yes. They wire you to a dynamo. If you lie, you get an electric shock. Lies turn the dynamo and generate electricity. The inventor of that wire used to draw a comic series about a female, who enslaved men by lassoing their secrets. So, the comic-book guy gave a scientific twist to the idea of the female lasso and came up with the lie detector. Slug. The diamond, Moth. My dick, Slug. Stand still!. Where did you hide it, boy?. You hid it. Fucking asshole. Sir, yes, sir. You found it. You found it, you piece of shit. Yes. I shoved it up my ass. Is that so? Go ahead. Search me. Stick it inside. We'll fix your memory circuit. I bought a praying mantis in a jar from a woman at the flea market. I wanted to buy a pair, so they can keep each other company, but the woman warned me that some day one of them would devour the other. So I dropped the idea. On my strolls by the Canal, I'd bring the mantis with me. I'd take her out of the jar and let her graze, and regain her sense of freedom... I gave the mantis to Ada as a proof that I was crazy about her. She fell in love with the insect. Moth and Mantis - that's how we came to be known among the local gangs. I was good at boxing and won fame in the neighborhood. Ada liked to watch me fight, so we could make love like animals afterwards. Fighting turns women on. For a while we fooled around in alleyways, among refuse and excrement. We wanted to get married, get our own place and love each other forever, but we needed money. She wanted to be a singer, but dropped out of school and needed to find a job. I dreamed about making it big in boxing and writing an autobiography, in a foreign tongue. We got tattooed by a barber, an old anarchist and a former jailbird. I asked for a large moth on my shoulder, she wanted a mantis below her bellybutton. After that Ada decided to set the insect free. I'm pregnant. I ripened on the spot. We decided to rent an apartment. We needed cash, so I took a day job in a factory. but for Ada, we had to see the Slug, a local con artist. He found odd jobs. He sent Ada off to be a maid to a jeweler. His name was Vladivostok Dmitrievich Lolushkin, a former white-guard. They called him Vlad the Bijou. He lived close to the Doctor's Garden. Slug had a plan. Ada had to work for Bijou until he fell victim to her feminine guile. The safe is in the wall of the lobby. The valuables are not in there though, but on top of the cupboard. How did you find that out? I eavesdropped. Spit it out. - A diamond. Where?. - In the negro's penis. An African statuette. You kidding?. - No. Ever since he got the statuette, bijou always keeps an eye on me when I tidy up and wouldn"t let me touch it. How big is it? - A bit over ten inches. And the penis? - A bit less than ten. Is it heavy?. - Quite. How come the negro doesn't tip over? - It does. So there's something hidden inside the penis. That's what I was saying. The other day I took it in my hands to wipe it and found the dick twists. bijou bristled up, told me it was a very valuable object, and I shouldn't get anywhere near it. We'll lift it. - How? There's a way. bijou goes to the Russian club every Friday. You have two days to take an imprint of his key. In two days, tell me how? - I don't know. Mount him. You mount him. bijou doesn't have a wiener. - Girl, don't fuck with me. I'm not. He told me so. He told you?. - Yes. He was born in Odessa with a wiener. His sister saw him naked She asked about the thing hanging between his legs. They told her it's something the doctors forgot to cut off. The sister took a pair of scissors and finished the job herself. That's an old story. I've heard it told about other people before. You watch out they don't tell it about you. I'll be watching, Moth. I'll be watching. The day before the heist, Ada took an imprint of the backstairs key. On his way out, Lolushkin had to take an urgent dump and rushed to the toilet, forgetting the keys in the door lock. That same Friday we waited for Ada to signal that Bijou had gone out. Aside from the statuette, we had to turn the house upside down, so it would look like a random burglary and Ada wouldn't be a suspect. You sing and you live. Or you float in the jar. I don't know that song. - You're lying, Moth. The police found the negro's penis rolling loose on the floor. Empty. I didn't see a penis there. You found it. There's nobody else. There's just me and you. There was no diamond. - Don't fool with me, Moth. I can make your life a living hell. Don't push me. Don't. There was no diamond, Slug. Dinner. You're hungry? You finish it, insect. I lost my appetite. Why didn't you rat me out? Generosity? I don't give a shit about you, Slug. I had to protect her and the child. Where did you hide it, Moth? You're finished. You'll be out soon. What's the plan. Simple. - Tell me. I don't want to. So what's your goal?. Not to leave this time. What do you mean? Don't ask, you won't get it. Moth, I want to give you something. He gave me a postcard with a savage-looking female, devouring a male. Someone wrote on its back: ""Murder is the secret hope of women. For them fornication is a travesty of manslaughter." You wrote that?. - No. I copied it down from an old book, ""The Witch Hammer". You look at the sky and it looks back at you with its barred eye. Those were his last words. He hanged himself on the bed-frame the night before he was to be released. The same night, I was digging the foundation pit of the mausoleum, where the mummified leader and teacher of the Bulgarian people, Georgi Dimitrov, had to be put on display. I found the glass eye the next day. Van Wurst had left it in my mattress before he hanged himself. I still remember his words: ""Moth, for the soul the eyes are Iike peas under a princess's mattress. They don't let her rest. Van Wurst-The Eye was and remains my closest friend. His real name was lliya Alexandrov Kazandjiev. After he took his life in the summer of 1949, there was no one left for me to leave and no one left to go back to. You drank enough poison to finish you off by the morning. You drank enough poison to finish you off by the morning. Slowly but surely. So why did you have to poison me?. Listen carefully, Moth. This poison has an antidote. And guess who has it?. I do. Did you think that up with your ass, comrade major?. Instead of thinking with your ass, why don't you play a partisan song with it? Mockery of the people's anthems?. Listen, Moth. You tell me where you hid the stone, and you leave this shithole alive. Otherwise you stay until you start cramping and frothing. Leonid, or Leo, as she called him in her letters, died of lockjaw. Sounds terrible. Moth?. Raycho? Raycho-The Skin - that's what we called him in the hood. We were great friends. You're in deep shit, buddy, very deep. They told me to rub you sore and throw you in that barrel with vinegar. His dream was to become a Turkish bath masseur. When he got Snow-White and the Seven Dwarves tattooed on his back, he won the respect of all the kids in the hood. One day Raycho disappeared. He was banging a gypsy girl under the bridges of the Canal and rumor had it, her relatives had kidnapped him to marry him off. It turned out, he did it on his own will. I was his best man at the wedding. Get out of here, man. beat it before it gets real bad. Where?. - I don't know. Run. Get lost. Hit me with this bench, so we can trick the guards. Moth. Enough. Enjoy you bath, you filthy Moth! The sergeant major's bosom reeks of tallow soap. Nineteen o'clock. Well, comrades, it's time for me to get off. Welcome to the hood. Whoops, the chewing gum. Give me some pretzel, comrade. I need to deliver milk for this sucker, Tseko Tsekov. Twenty o'clock. Tobacco-stained female voices drift out of the office. Doctor's Office A heady smell of cheap tobacco, ammonia, and nail polish remover. Comrade, are you drunk? No. I'm from the amateur theater group. We're rehearsing "Under the Yoke"" at the community center. I'm playing Ognyanov, the revolutionary, and they wound me. Ognyanov?. I was just about to believe you. Look, that's the approach. Realistic. Stop shitting me. Jolly as an old tart. I mean it. We were rehearsing and they wounded me. Now I feel nauseous. Ognyanov... Her gaze scratches like manicured nails. That's one lame story. We'll need to test you for alcohol. Nicotine phlegm is ripping her throat. Nurse, drain out Ognyanov. Take his blood sample. And urine sample. Let's see what's wrong with the star actor. The nurse ogles me, her sour whiff hits me in the nose. Follow me into the manipulation room. You got a medical record?. - I don't think so. You don't think? I recently moved into this neighborhood. I used to be a tinker and now I work in the packaging department of the chocolate factory. ""Malchika"? - Yes, this is my first visit. You've got a large vein, comrade. We urinate in the glass. I'll do my best. You're lucky the lab guy will process your samples tonight. He's an awfully sweet person. And frankly, it wouldn't hurt at all if you buy him a box of chocolates. Did you hear what happened to Stomna Galabova?. Who's that? - Stomna. The one with the big boobies? Yes. The one from the National Theater, who plays the agronomist in "The Natives". In February she goes skiing. She climbs the trail sideways with her skis on, but all of a sudden she needs to pee. She slips into the bushes, takes down her pants, and squats, with the skis still on. She loses her balance. The skis start sliding down the slippery slope, and Stomna goes flying down the trail with her pants off. She falls and breaks her ankle. but manages to pull up her pants before the arrival of the ski patrol, and keeps her dignity. Otherwise - imagine the disgrace. A national actress skiing with no pants on. Yeah, right. As if I believed you. A national actress with no pants on. My ass. The Grey Horse ""You are my mermaid, I'm your drowning sailor. You are my mermaid, I'm your drowning sailor. Weep, heart, oh weep, weep for your alma that nowhere else in the world there are blue eyes and blond hair like hers. " Waiter, rum for the young fellow here. Chug! They smell of mastic and earwax. Shit. Who are you? - And who are you?. Grater Listen up, buddy, I'll tell you how he got his nickname. There was this big time embarrassment on his name day some years ago. So, Grater stuffs himself full of fried beans, pickled cabbage, and beer. And goes home. His little wife has a surprise for him. She grabs him at the door, blindfolds him, Ieads him into the dining room, and sits him at the table. There's a knock on the door. She goes to answer it, but she's held up. Grater is full to bursting, blindfolded, waiting for the surprise, while the gas is pushing out. He shifts from one butt cheek to the other, comes off the chair, and breaks a mighty wind. To disperse it, he takes one side of the tablecloth and starts fanning. He feels relieved for a moment. And again... grrr, grrr. Just like a grater. And so he keeps on grating, until his wife comes back, takes off his blindfold, and... surprise. All around the table sit the guests she invited for the occasion. Imagine the embarrassment. Have a bite. Have one. Chug! Twenty-one o'clock. Hey, man. Never trust the radio when drunk. A buddy of mine, Badjo, buys a "balkan" motorbike. He takes it for a test ride in his backyard. but the front wheel jams. The bike makes a somersault, badjo flies off, and crashes into the cookhouse window. He's slashed all over, and... goes straight to the ER to get stitched up. Meanwhile, his wife soaks up the gasoline that has spilled on the floor with newspapers, and throws them into the outhouse. badjo gets home all bandaged up. He takes a shot of brandy, and goes to take a shit. He lights up a cigarette... and straight back to the ER. - Unbelievable. Out of the dark bosom of Chaos. What a thought! I'll have it inscribed on a wooden spoon and give it to my wife for the 8th of March. Take it easy with the 8th of March, so it doesn't happen like in Lom. Lom? - Damn right, Lom. Hey, Emko, give them the scoop. Last year on the 8th of March in the town of Lom, a black cat starts crossing the street. Down the street comes a truck loaded with metal sheets. The driver sees the cat, steps on the gas to avoid it, and enters the intersection at full speed. but at that moment, kindergarteners are walking across it, and he rams on the brake. A metal sheet goes flying out, breaks the window glass of the hair salon across the street, and chops off an entire row of freshly bobbed heads. The driver freezes in horror, and drops dead inside the truck. A group of shock-workers from the textile factory, having their hair done for the 8th of March festivities. Poor creatures. Right on woman-mother's day. Do you know what iridium is?. Poison. Luminescent poison. Get me the report. The poison is in your blood. Do you have an idea when and how you swallowed that poison?. Do you understand how serious this is?. Don't look at me like an idiot! There's no antidote for this poison. Then someone else gave it to you? You have been murdered! Nurse, call the police. Don't move. I'll give you an lV. Twenty-two o'clock. The murdered one is still alive. I'm done with. I dash for St. Nicholas of Sofia church. I was baptized here. Ada and I exchanged vows here the day before the heist. Father Todor became our witness, for we had no one else. She wanted me to pledge my love to her before a holy man. Man can't leave this place without leaving something behind. As the soul takes her due from this world, but leaves the body in return. I was seized with shame. Father, I didn't come here to take, but the devil poked me with his crooked finger and my hand reached out. No! Whatever's taken stays taken. You've fallen, son, as low as the worm. You've perished. Your wick has burned out. What path did you take to lose yourself, Levo?. He recognized me. You recognized me, father. Of course, I recognized you. It was this hand that baptized you. Why did you come here? To repent, father, for I am a goner. We are all goners. Where do you come from and where are you going to? I got my freedom today, but freedom's gone. I'm going to die. You talk in riddles. Something's eating you from the inside. Confess and you'll feel better. Speak out your sin. I have one sin only, which I've been paying for all these years. That sin will finish me. I accepted to pay for it, but I swear I'm not a murderer. The murderer is another and I covered him up. Why? Who tied your tongue?. Nobody. It was for her. She was pregnant. I needed to protect her and my son Leo. boy, you're delirious. I have atoned without having sinned, father. The time for reckoning has come. Tonight I'll draw the bottom line. - Humble yourself. You're feverish. Humble yourself. Please, father, tell me where she is. Give it up, boy. After the communist coup she became a mistress of a commissar. Tell me, father, tell me. With that slimy guy, who disappeared for a while and then came out of the underground, put on a uniform and became a big shot. The truth, father, say it. Ah. You can't get to the truth, son. Your truth is not her truth. Where can I find her?. Where?. At the cocktail lounge on Malko Tarnovo. Malko Tarnovo?. The steep alleyway behind the palace. You'll find it. God be with you, Levo. Live! Death and the people's government were at my heels, when suddenly I saw the city center looming in front of me. I said to myself: It has all come true! Up there, on top of the world, the red star shines in the heavens like a ruby meteor. The words of the prison-cell radio have come true: Iight has conquered darkness. I notice that I cast no shadow. Am I dead, or am I in the netherworld? Or am I standing before the gates of paradise?. I feel elated, class conscious. The mausoleum! I fall prostrate on the yellow cobblestones, the gaps filled with black zift. ""The Dictionary of Foreign Words"" helps me grasp the gist of the moment: mummy comes from the Arabic word for black resin, zift. The Leader's mummy has leaked out into the square, so that I can taste it like a communion wafer, receive it like a blessing, share it like daily bread. The mummy - the corpse of incorporeal power. What shall it be? - Something strong. White slave?. Just right for the artistic intelligentsia. Who's singing tonight? Gilda. The girl in the photo. She's got one more act and then we're closing. The bar looks dejected, idle, and extramarital. Cheers. A bowtie on a bare neck? A fashion statement or what?. No. I lost a bet and now I have to wear it until New Year's. A bet?. What kind? With a major from the military counter-intelligence. He comes here because of Gilda. We discuss, how should I say, general army matters. ""When the Kalirakra earthquake happened, I was still a young girl. A great wave split the coast. We're wicked, people say, but I don't believe them. The moon is to blame, the full moon. The moon carelessly plays with us by the notes of lunar jazz. The moon is to blame. The mad moon. When they killed the boy in Varna who was in love with me, they told me I was a hopeless bitch. You're wicked, people point at me, but I don't believe them. The moon is to blame, the full moon. The moon carelessly plays with us by the notes of lunarjazz. The moon is to blame, the mad moon."' There's this book called ""Candide"". It asks what is the human thing to do: to drift around the world with no direction or goal and be raped by a bunch of vulgarian Bulgarians, or to sit down on your warm butt in life's flower-bed. What is the human thing to do? Hmm, you don't get to choose. Man squats down in life's flower-bed anyway, but only after he's been raped by a bunch of vulgarian Bulgarians. Coming in?. The criminal always returns to the crime scene. Who owns all of this? - He does. Slug? He bought himself the crime scene?. Yes, but he doesn't live here. I live here alone. Men don't live in parlors - they go there to fornicate. Did you sleep with him?. - Yes, I did. To cover your rent?. He believes the stone is here. That's why nothing gets touched. Even the chalk. White slave. The praying mantis. She seems to be praying, while in fact she's stalking her prey. When in heat, she takes on a praying position and remains exquisitely still until a vagrant male specimen mounts her. A little before the male ejaculates, she bites off and swallows his head. The beheaded male doesn't die immediately;, in fact, his potency is enhanced. Copulation is the reverse of self-preservation. Suddenly, Slug was born out of the night with the smell of a freshly printed book. I"m losing my mind. Tell me about Leo. Leo's gone. There's only the grave. Let's run away from here. We'll need money. I'll take some from the cocktail-lounge cash register. There's no need. I know. - Know what? Where the stone is. - The stone? The diamond. Where?. In Bijou's grave. So there was a stone after all. Yes. Slug had already ransacked the room. There wasn't a trace of the negro's penis. A little before they knocked down the door, my eyes fell on Lolushikin's ass. And it all came together. The penis was in... - Yes. Slug had shot him in the chest. He was in his death throes and soiled himself in the agony. The penis fell out. Just before they stormed in, a black diamond slipped into my hand. They were already knocking off the hinges and Lolushkin was breathing his last. His mouth opened. I dropped the stone inside. He swallowed it convulsively and died. And then? I came to myself in the hospital. A policeman was guarding me. Didn't they ask about the stone?. No one suspected there was a stone. Or that I had accomplices. That I had you. Gravediggers. Living Quarters. Gravediggers. Living Quarters. ""Death solves all problems - no man, no problem." Come on, come on. Wait, wait. Give me a good one. Good evening. Who's in charge here?. Peter Raychev. Deputy gravedigger. The chief is out. The stench of rubber boots, rotten teeth, and burned flatulence. Over there. First we visit the grave of our son Leonid, then bijou's. The grave is fresh. Leonid Someone was buried here recently. The obituary says: ""The dark years after the death of Leonid were the death of his mother Paraskeva. May she rest in peace!'" I'm pregnant. This is not my son's grave. If this Leonid's mother wasn"t buried recently here, the fraud might have never been exposed. I've never had a son. She was lying to me all along. She brought me to someone else's grave. Moth. I feel sick. My head is about to burst, as if death wants to remove me from this world with a corkscrew, and is now screwing it into my brain. Slug is standing next to Ada. It doesn't matter anymore. I'm looking at her, the most volatile variable in life - the female variable. To bijou's grave, Moth. Vladivostok Dmitrievich Lolushkin Vengeance makes you feel good, really good. That was the last time I saw her. The mantis is a special creature, by which Nature prays to the Creator to forgive the fall of man. It's butt-warm inside. I overstuffed myself with shit, deputy gravedigger. It's time for me to go. Don't worry, man. The bigger the shit, the lesser the damage. The moral damage, that is, not the material one. You're a good man, as earnest as Lenin. I have one last wish. Pass me the zift from the pocket, so I can get a fresh taste in my mouth before I depart. The moth. Picture him flying. He doesn't fly, but flutters chaotically. If you try to map his flight, you'll get an inscrutable drawing. My life was something of the sort, actually any life. Moth, who lived by chance and died thereby. Six o'clock. Good morning. ""Where are you, where are you, brown eyes, where are you my homeland? In front of us - Bulgaria, behind us - the Danube. In front of us - Bulgaria, behind us - the Danube. We've traveled many leagues over water and land, but our Soviet fatherland we have not forgotten. And under Balkan stars we persistently recall the Yaroslavl, Rezanski, and Smolensky places. We recall the brown eyes, the quiet voices, the merry laughter. Bulgaria is a nice country but Russia is better than them all. '"
