 

                        A security guard reported to us This guy looked odd, hanging around in a building He ran away while seeing the police. So he has been sent to the station for investigation He didn't say anything Seems mental disorder Check if he carries any suspicious things I find nothing How did you get here? By Walk? Bro Han Bro Han This guy was hanging around in the building He's caught by our teammate Any criminal record'? No What did he say? Nothing, nothing Give me a cup Do you want coke'? Want sugar free? Don't move Wow, how can you do this? Clam down I... killed people Who? But... they are... all... god damn wolves! So... Who are the wolves'? Cheung Fai... Police Is Cheung Fai here'? I am Mr. Cheung, please show us your ID card Damn it, is it funny'? What is your name? His name is Wu Zai Jun, here's his address Wu Zai Jun, I tell you Reporting a fake case is illegal, we can put you to jail We will tell your mom I... killed people Your target looks better than you Are you dreaming? You... don't know me'? Let me see Such heavy make-Up, who can recognize you'? Go and wash your face Let him go Let go! I did wrong thing... You have to... save me... Stop it! You are... wolf! All of you... are wolves! I will... kill... all the wolves! Did you find any suspect things when you visited Cheung Fai's home? How to write this report'? Hey, don't mention about the visit How come you write this? Make it as simple as you can Ignore the part about Cheung Fai We were busy for nothing over night If we report this, are we silly'? Okay Bro Han, for your review I can revise it if you have any questions It's fine, you guys can leave Your son didn't take his notebook? Yes, I take it for repair You see, I'm just like a maid Bye Bye It's so late, what are you doing'? What's this on the floor'? May be... A guy with heavy make-Up came here to report case before... He was sweating all the time, he made this Nothing special, he's insane Only you here? I got something to do Delegate it to others Don't put all things on your shoulder Does your wife complain? She doesn't complain Anyway, you have to spend more time on your son I know you have to manage the promotion exam next month But don't work so late Yes, thank you sir Good bye Bye Are you insane? You want to kill your mom? You can't do this Mom will be hurt, understand'? Why hitting yourself'? Tell mom, what do you want? Don't smoke when the kid is here The doctor said it's not good for him Which doctor'? I ask you, who said that? I will change the doctor tomorrow Would it help'? Every doctor says we have to devote more love to him Can he feel it'? He just laughed when you were falling down Yes, he knows nothing But he knows you hate him I don't understand When we got married ten years ago You were another person Why did you change like this? You even dislike your son It's again my fault, it's my fault You're always right If you don't like our family, just get away Get out! Look, daddy brings you a birthday gift Daddy gives you a gun You will be a smart detective when you grow up Work with daddy on investigations Once upon a time, there was a pretty little princess She liked to play with a golden ball One day Little princess brought this golden ball to the forest near the palace She went to a well Who knew... Little princess felt the golden ball into the well Little princess was crying... At this moment, she heard a voice Little princess, little princess, why do you cry? When the little princess looked at the well Honey A frog came out from the well Little princess said to the frog I'm sorry My golden ball felt into the well The frog said... I can jump to the well and get back the golden ball for you But could you do one thing for me'? The little princess said... I can do anything for you... ...if you can get back the golden ball The frog then said... I want to make friend with you The frog jumped to the well And got the golden ball Since then, The little princess and the frog became good friends You... You... you devil... You... deserve it! Deserve to die! Deserve to die! Deserve to die! Our investigation Any outsider knows'? No It's discovered by him Bro, how's the situation? It's a male corpse Shit We discharged the murderer Tell the others, we got a trouble The victim is Cheung Fai Keep silent, let's discuss when we're back According to the blood test of the deceased, we found Barbiturate It's a kind of sedative, with hypnotic function In the 60s, 70s It's used to inject into war prisoners for getting the state secret Some people called this medicine of confession Could you make it simpler'? I'm not coming for lecture This level of Barbiturate was not enough to kill the victim It made the victim out of conscious So, the victim was slaughtered Under such unconscious situation Then, the stomach was filled up by seven pieces of stone Filled up by seven pieces of stone, did he die right away? As long as the stones didn't damage the main organs, he might not die When the effect of medicine was gone, he would wake up Why did the killer use such way? He must be insane, he thought it's funny Excuse me If you think it's done by that mad man, we have to be responsible for it But when we did the investigation, the victim hasn't died... But he died now Yes Where is Dr. Lee? He's out Is the report ready? Blood, fingerprint all match There's some white liquid on the grass, it's proved to be... mix of sweat and rouge, foundation From my speculation, the murderer had heavy make-Up I take this report, please send this to Dr. Lee Ok, thanks The report sent to Commander Chan didn't mention about Cheung Fai But it mentioned that a psychotic with heavy make-Up You fix it I'm sorry Dr. Lee, excuse me Let's keep in touch for any new clues Let's go Your colleague left this report Actually we don't have to erase the evidence The report mentioned about the mad guy Evidence was found at the scene of murder And the suspect has said he killed someone But we didn't follow up It's totally our fault If there's no evidence but we can still get the suspect We're smart Bro is teaching us You don't want merit, but I want it Most importantly, we have to catch the suspect asap. It's messy That mad guy should have been here Shit What is it'? Be careful He didn't come back after he left the station He had said, he would kill someone He did it, but he doesn't know the victim Bro Han, he said that he knows you Can you think it again? Any idea? Let's figure out how to write the report Clues are not left by the murderer, it's found by ourselves Rumor has it that a model factory owned by a Hong Kong investor Is winding up recently The labors found strangers came last weekend... ...to move out those valuable machinery Besides, the Hong Kong investor hasn't shown up for several days CDK Then I'll contact you soon. Goodbye The labors stopped any outsiders from moving out machinery They hope the Hong Kong investor will show up and explain the situation What's up, still keep it Erase it A police riding on motorcycle went to handle a traffic accident When he came to the Castle Peak Road near Kwai Chung, the car crashed the fence Information leakage happened to the Police Force Hey, come and see, a trouble again Information includes statement Recently confidential information of Police Force has been spread thru P2P software The Secretary of Security Bureau expressed his serious concern on this issue If the information leakage was caused by mishandling of police officers The people involved will be punished Yesterday morning during the push hour Technical hitch happened to the train at Sunny Bay station Around two thousand staffs And visitors of Disneyland are affected The MTR arranged shuttle bus to... You should know how serious it is The fault shouldn't be made by our team Now it's proved All the information was leaked from your unit The superior concerns it very much You're going to have promotion exam, you don't want to get any trouble right From my speculation... Old man's son has come here once to use the computer May be the kid was careless Who knows what he did on the internet From your speculation... it's reasonable Commander Chan, I can't take care of all things by myself I understand Finish the case quickly, we can regain the reputation It's good for you, and good for the Police Force Yes sir The superior has found the source The information was leaked from our unit Kidding me, they find it so quickly Those guys in Internal Affairs suddenly work so efficient Are they poisoned? The superior is serious, next week our whole unit... will have to go thru the investigation Treat us as suspects? There're so many officer coming in and out every day Many documents are circulated Why us? I don't know What is those information? I don't know Don't ask me Your son has come last night, did he use the computer to get online? What are you talking about? You mean my son did it'? I didn't mean it You won't understand Don't talk nonsense if you don't understand Everyone please check your computer Don't worry, standard procedures It'll be fine I'll fix it Cheung Fai is the Vice Chairman of a psychiatric hospital I think we can find some clues there Have you been the Internal Affairs Unit'? No I haven't received any notice So, why they didn't call us? Simple answer They found the murderer On that day, was there anything wrong here? No, nothing special On a different day Two days ago, a patient missed Wong Yue Yee likes drawing, it's the only way for her to communicate with others Many people say, she is an autistic painter of genius Is she a mute? Absolutely not Just no one has talked to her I want to ask you, has she ever had any conflicts with the Vice Chairman? It happened once long time ago That time, she was drawing in the hospital lobby, the Vice Chairman stopped her She suddenly got mad and bit the Vice Chairman How long has she been here? Around two years How did she get here'? Any relatives'? That time she was scrawling on the street, the police found her She didn't have ID card, and she didn't speak She has just written her name The doctor diagnosed that she has autism So she was sent here Since then, no one has visited her One is a mud lark, one is an autistic mute Is there any relationship between them? Let go! Let go... Let go... Don't see it You're not qualified to see it! Get out! Get out! Don't see it Get out! Don't see it Get out! Out! Why you're so kind to have gathering with us today? Bro, when will we arrive? I'm starving Will we die here? No, we will not starved to death The God would not treat innocent children like this How long would it take to leave this forest'? Where are we going? Be good, ok? Be good There're a lot of nice food waiting for us outside We shouldn't go to a crowded place Of course not I want to let Shu get more contact with the outside world It's good for him Cake? Yes Candies? Yes As much as you wanted Let's go quickly Go What'? Be good, stay here He don't like crowded place How many people are here? It's your problem We have been evading to face this problem If I want to evade, I... If I want to evade, I won't come here with you guys This is a wrong way Can't you just treat him as a normal kid? Do you still remember? Last time when we brought him out Yes, I can't find a right way I just know we couldn't keep him at home all the day May I ask all parents to come here Kid, no... I'm sorry, please let him go first Shu, be good. Listen to mom Let us go down first See, he is hungrier than us Come on, good. Take it Sit well Well... Stop it It's coming to the end of story I wish all the kids here can give us a big hand Okay? Yes Let me count down and open the oven Alright? Yes Come on, one... two... three! Candy Switch off the light! Is it enough! Stop You want to be him? I'm talking to you What are you doing? He's your son, are you insane? Come and see Little sheep... kills wolf You're... drawing... who? Is this me'? How come... I'm... a devil'? I... I'm not... a devil I don't want it... I don't want it... I... I'm not... a devil I... I'm not... a devil I'm not... I'm not... a devil I'm not a devil Shu You want coke'? Want sugar free? Easy... don't drink so fast Come on... You like drawing, draw on paper Don't draw on the wall The wall is stained You really like drawing'? Shu, I ask you, just answer daddy Have you read The Wolf and Seven Baby Sheep'? Do you think it's wrong for the mother sheep to kill the wolf'? Do you think it's wrong to kill people'? Shu You're good at playing puzzle, come and help daddy to do one Come on, help me Come on Quick, do it for me Come on! Come on! The next victim will just like Cinderella I have to find this symbol, we'll get clues then How are you guys doing'? Get the clues, complete the case I got it When I was studying the information of Wu Zai Jun, I have seen this symbol We're police I want to get information about the alumni of Chi You Orphanage Chi Yo Orphanage is very old indeed The ownership has been transferred, the name was changed to Shin Dao Kids Centre We don't have much information about the old one Here are all of them Were the kids split into different teams? And managed by different teachers'? Yes, it is There're two kids, Wu Zai Jun, Wong Yue Yee Do you remember anything about them'? Oh that two kids are so poor One got skin disease, the other is a psychotic They're always insulted by the others Chi You Orphanage In a fairy tale Bad guy must be punished I'll be your prince and protect you Wipe out the devil I... I did all things... because of you How come... I'm still... a devil'? You tell me... how can I... become... your prince? The Red Shoes Let's check it carefully, once again Here's a computer Check if there's any files Come on, this is a display only No CPU, how can it save files? Why so offensive? Finish the job first, let's talk later What should we talk? You have explained to Commander Chan already I know you've put me in the wrong You must be the traitor I speak very carefully now I'm afraid I will lose my retirement pay The superior needs to get an explanation Commander Chan picked you, you're about to retire, it won't affect you much At this position, what can I say? You can say anything How many people did you kill? Tell us! Old man Look for me'? Are you addicted to fairy tales? Are you going to kill all the "wolves"? In... a fairy tale You did something wrong... you have to confess it bravely... So do you admit that you killed many wolves? How many? Two'? Remember their names'? Cheung Fai? Chau Mei Fong? Do you want to take a look of them'? Your "wolves" Your "wolves"... your "wolves" I write down... my story Are you kidding us? You want to know the truth... better find it by yourself What are you doing? Is it enough? Discharge him! We found fingerprints, but it didn't match Impossible Fingerprints belong to a man called Ko Chi Man We just found his dead body In fairy tale... No pain, no gain It's here The Red Shoes What are you doing? Where is the suspect? Insufficient evidence, Commander Chan discharged him Commander Chan is looking for you How's the situation? Come on Sir Please sit Do you know someone snitched on you? What the hell you're doing? Wu Zai Jun came to report the case, He said clearly that he killed Cheung Fai On the next day, Cheung Fai was killed But I couldn't see any description in the report You even erased the evidence It's all done by Sha and Old man We just want to finish the case asap, sir Did you approve them to do that'? I just knew it afterward You're responsible for it That crazy guy slashed the hand of KO Chi Man and get his fingerprints To distract us That crazy guy is the killer Commander Chan, you discharged the guy What are you talking about? You want to get me involved! Sorry, sir. It's my fault Now the only solution is to complete the case I found information of Chiu Nam Chiu Nam, 40 years old, ex-Teacher of Chi You Orphanage Now she is a solicitor Chiu Nam & Company Ms. Chiu Inspector Wong Wai Han Inspector Wong, please take a seat I'm coming to investigate a murderer case I have to ask you something Please go on These are Your ex-Colleagues in Chi You Orphanage They were all killed I know, I saw the news We suspect that, someone is going to do serial murder It seems all related to Chi You Orphanage So I'm here to get more ideas about the history of Chi You Orphanage Especially about how you treated the orphans Inspector Wong As a citizen I'm always pleased to cooperate with Police Force But I want you to declare your position Am I a suspect, or a witness? If I don't make it clear I have the right to keep silent Our responsibility is to protect all citizens We hope you could be cooperative I'm able to protect myself, thanks for your caring About Chi You Orphanage, it's been long time ago I can't remember it well Of course If I can recall it, I'll get in touch with you Today I'm quite busy I have to go back to my work I checked it, all of you resigned from the orphanage within a short period of time Was there any reason? Please Ms. Chiu, your ex-Colleagues all died miserably I can tell, you will be the next victim What time will she finish her work? Take a rest for ten minutes Come, get something to eat Beer I know you're angry with me It's my fault You shouldn't do that You have to take care of buddies You all know, I don't have any expertise For ten years, I haven't been promoted My only way to get promoted is to follow the superior To be honest, Commander Chan gives me great pressure You will be set up some day This time, he asks you to set us up Next time, he may find some other to set you up as well That's true It's a simple logic You say, do you deserve a fist? I'm sorry You... see I... for you I... killed the last wolf... In your mind... I should not be a devil anymore. I'm... the real hero The prince... in your mind Your prince You... You're not! Killer is the devil Killer devil! Wolf Shit! The murderer is around Cinderella Here's your result of promotion exam Do you smell stink'? Wolf Wolf Come here alone, save people, Lot 24 Pak Heung, Yuen Long The number you called cannot be reached at this moment Please try again later Hubby! Wai! The end of fairy tale Start! In fairy tale, there's no door on tower If you want to save your princess... You better climb up here Hubby. Wai! Wai! Jun I know you and Yue Yee suffered a lot in the childhood But it's nothing to do with my wife and son My son is so poor, you've seen him He got autism In fairy tale, innocent kids shouldn't be hurt Only devil would do bad things I'm not devil... Let my son go Let my son go! Bro Han! Bro Han! Save us! Bro Han! Bro Han! Here! Bro Han! If you want to save them... Eat the poisoned apple first! Go to hell! Don't be scared... He is a mad man! Bro Han... save us... bro Han! You are still struggling? No! Go and save your wife and son Don't be scared Get someone to help What do you laugh at? Release them all! Three minutes left When time is up Your wife and son... Will... fall down And the poison in your body Will kill you! You decide to spend the time to kill me Or to... go there... find the control key Or to... get back the bottle of water with medication To save yourself You make a decision Wai! You really... can't recognize me'? A brave police officer, Wong Wai Han jumped into the sea to save a man You don't have to worry The poison in your body Will decease soon This is the end... of fairy tale And I I... did all the things for Yue Yee I'm not... I'm not a devil I'm the prince of Yue Yee She asked me to save you Let you be the real hero Save yourself, save your family Yue Yee let me know... how to move on Now we have to go We're going to complete... the fairy tale Let you be the real hero Save yourself, save your family
