 

                        It's here Hey, Kwai Do we let Dorina trap Horny? We can't let Dorina torture Horny It's really a waste What can we do? They're getting married today Well, If Horny marries Dorlina He is really in trouble He'll be trouble He will be exhausted Don't be silly Stop day-dreaming You are right I am not day dreaming Let's talk to Horny We still have time Wait What? There could be an ambush Let me try Hello... I have got them That was Horny, damn it Who threw at me? That was a naughty boy I had told him off Okay... What's wrong with you? I am burning my ex-girl friends' photos So hot, I go washing my face My darlings, goodbye now Moleen, how can I burn you... Better Maggie first, she left me You're very good to your ex-girlfriends Of course I used to take one of their hairs... when I broke up with each of them And I have knitted a towel with the hair A Towel? This is made of eye-brow Eye-brow Where did you get these? I lost it last night Tell me if you love Dorlina If not, you better hide away And we will support you It's very kind of you But it's too ruthless if I leave now If you marry her, that's the end for you Right, so many nice girls in the world Let's go Go Go My God, Dorlina is coming Come with me Open up We need $999,999.99 to open up What? He's not a billionaire Open up or I smash you Let me try What Dorlina, don't argue today Don't worry your pal is a good bargainer $99.90 What? Say $990,000.00 Through the window But here is 24/F Mind your words or I'll burn up your house Dorlina may not agree to burn her husband No I've bought a $5M life insurance policy for Horny yesterday The money will go to me What's up? Her pal said to set fire Set fire? If there's a fire on 24/F The highest chance to survive is going to the roof How high? Go to hell I tell you what You have to deal with Dorlina Me? I pass some of my energy to you Are you all right? Ready Let them in Dorlina, I want to talk to you Say it I love you very much Into the room Oh No, there're so many people outside Sign it What is it? Sign it first This contract says as from today All your income It means your total income Which includes all sorts will all belong to me I've quitted my job and started enjoying my life It leaves 10% to me only Wrong The 10% goes to my parents and my relatives Undress yourself Be mercy to me What's the noise? Dorlina is not using the drill Turn around Take away your hand You can't fool around anymore I hate you for the rest of my life Even though you've got my body but you can never have my heart Look at here please Smile, don't move One more please Are you insane? $200 for two? Try your luck, the loser has to go Go ahead You're crazy Let's go... $200 more Just pick up one of the dishes And get lost right away What do we have? Red bean sweet soup Someone is having it Go to get an orange Have dinner at my place tomorrow night No Let's dine outside No They will ask you to give cash instead My dad is greedy And don't buy too many gifts Just fruits Don't be silly, I won't get broke Mind your words It may bring bad luck Do I look better with the contact lenses? Look carefully Nice It's hard lens Let's play the game I don't play wine games Come on I don't know how to play Don't fool me Do you really want to play? Yes All right Uncle, this is my pal Robert Cheung I have heard a lot about you Mr. Tsui Kwai, come over My younger brother Tsui Ting Kwai this is Mr. Cheung My brother is very smart He got a MBA from HKU That's great Thank you You work for Fok's we have business deals To be exact it should be the Tsui's syndicate owes us $2 million Big business always has big loans And when the mall in Canada were completed Our capital return will be quick Robert and I are good friends He was really poor in University I even lent him my under And you are after my loan? Yes We've got no reply for postponing... the debt payment date Don't talk about business tonight And Fu and I are good friends for years Money is nothing compare with our friendship That's good Be seated Boss, seems that Robert Cheung is very interested in Fok's He wants to merge the middle size syndicate He forced Fok Ka Tung to make him be Deputy Director I know he is a problem He's real pal If Robert wants me dead it's the end of the world Are you talking about me? Robert, want to play some golf? No, it's business they are from the court The court has the writ Fok now controls Tsui's capital Damn it, it's not April Fool's Day Don't fool me It's a true, you see yourself Good you die really fooled me last night This's my job Fok's has been trying to merge you You shouldn't owe us money But I treat Fu as my boss You are my brother and I tell you the truth And, why didn't you help me? My brother is in trouble My younger brother is in hospital My Dad also needs a heart operation So you have to many problems I don't blame you No, I want to tell you I didn't help them at all And why should I help you? Fine And your personal loan of $3.2M It has expired long ago And you are broke now I know you have a golden toilet Don't take it away Go to get it Yes Do you remember we shared underwears? I gave you the best ones I hate you mentioning this But you keep saying it all the time I am wrong, I change yours with mine Boss, just ignore him No, Elizabeth Tayor had sat here I can't make it without her No, no Boss Give it back to me Give it back to me Boss, don't be like this Hey, what's up? Well, Tsui's is under my control My temporary office is Mr. Tsui's office Come to see me now Stop Robert Cheng, let's wait and see I started from the bottom I can start again I may be richer You were rich when you were born If you didn't have a rich father You couldn't be promoted so fast Let me tell you I have 3 months holiday starting tomorrow Go to work for Fok's if you can I'm a Deputy Director, remember If you can come over me I lick your toes and run naked in Central Go What? What we have is true friendship We won't work for the Fok's I heard that you are the best friends Yes Good, I have the purge once for all I give you 15 minutes to pack or I send the security Pal Gee, he's sick again Send him home first Where can we go? They will take over our house too Let's send him to the hospital See if we still have personal assets Kwai, don't be like that Kwai, keep calm We have to be tough and strong What do you want, sir? Let me have a look Fatty are you going to buy something or what? Of course, but I have to check See if it is a nice one I want nice ones Pay for this one first $1? It costs $4.00 I only ate one quarter How can it be? I buy some more then Good Which ones? These... The two dollar ones don't have that big The apples are not big but your eyes Wrap them Hey, the mango costs $8.00 each It's not a good one Don't follow if it's a bad one How do I know it's rotten or not It may have worms in there It smells cat shit It's cheap stuff $1 for two and I buy them all You are wrong, they are nice fruit Even though it smells cat shit But it is juicy I saw this costs $12.00 yesterday somewhere You are an expert $8 for twenty Thanks OK $4.00 each for you You don't look like a rich man Stop taking them away Can I try it? That's OK But you shouldn't bring it home to try You stole the fruit What... I only forgot to pay No wonder the fruits are gone everyday You are the one stealing them Arrest him Don't go Arrest him Bastard, don't let me see you again Mom, what's wrong with Kwai? I think the relatives are welcoming him I do the cooking first Kwai, come in, I want to talk to you When my Dad comes back later Don't tell him that you have broken I can't hide it Let's wait and see Don't smoke too much I can't stop it You are back Yes That bastard tricked me And I ended up going to the police station Dad, luckily I bailed you out Or you'll be beaten up It's your fault to let people know I'm your dad It should be a $1,000 bail now it $5,000 Why turn on all the lights? Because we become rich What, a barstard tricked my Dad? That bastard It's me Amy's boy friend is here Yeah? What does he do? He's the big boss of Tsui's syndicate Honey, go get some roast pork Put it on the credit Fine, I have the shark fin and some seafood Don't spend too much money Where is he? In Amy's room The door is shut Ask Amy to behave Open the door, Amy What are you doing? Dad What's going on? Nothing Having facial treatment Yes, I am learning I try it on him, wash it back home My Dad, and Mr. Tsui Ting Kwai Honey did you see Amy and Kwai's photos? They look good What's wrong with you? A big spider, did you see it? Are you sure? Did you see it? Let's have dinner Come on To enjoy to eat little Our family has been financially well balanced We only spend money when it's necessary Let me open it What can I do for you, sir? Is it your photo album? I think it's you who dropped this I didn't do it, he did it He threw it, arrest him Look, do I look handsome Quite Look at my face now I was careless when cleaning the toilet I was burnt by the acid My mom cried for the whole week and she used the herbs to cure me Yes, I was wrong I shouldn't throw things down the street But don't arrest me, go get my Dad Otherwise, my Mom would be hurt Let him go Don't do this next time Remember Sir, please take it with you Go Don't do this next time Go as far as you can It's fine now What's the matter? It's you, bastard Dad So what? Let's talk over there Go Don't know what would happen I know you are clever the first time I saw you Thanks Let's eat Okay Help yourself I go to get the Brandy You don't have to How did you settle it? I told him I'll give him a unit in Kowloon Tong on 32/F And that's settled You still have money? No, I just fooled him Come That's it Amy do you know Kwai firm has closed down? Who is broke? Kwai, take it easy We will support you You can start all over again So you are broke Darling, take away all the food You can really act You said top floor and roof why just roof? The roof is the only place that isn't taken by the authority Uncle Kwai Uncle How can you let uncle live in such place? It's fine Right, it's a nice place There was the seashore there not long ago And water supply from the tank Two hours walk to the bus station It is really an enjoyable place to live Let's have our dinner Go in Where is the T.V.? Next door We can't just let Robert Cheng be so vain So? Don't worry I'll fix him up tonight How is my night suit? You must be reading too much Insane I have some news Fok's is looking for office boy & an assistant administrator Let's go to apply Silly boy Wait Robert is having three months holiday And nobody will recognize us We look for his mistakes And teach him a real good lesson Make it the end of him Good idea We can steal the capital money and fool his girls and ruin his business You may have to spend years in jail Go to hell Get him broke Don't let Amy and Uncle know about it Thanks Miss I want to apply for asst. Administrator Wait I reserve this one for you There are more than 3000 people after this post Hey, let's have a deal If you are late for home say that you are with me I know you are impartial Those poor ones are still waiting out there The world is unfair How much longer do we have to wait? We are office boys I'm looking for an office boy for more than 4 months Now I hired four of them I treat you guys in order to welcome to join us Sit down Please feel free, Mr. Wong I am so glad today I must order the best food Does that girl with glasses have AIDS? Don't look, she's also known as cobra She is our president's cousin and secretary She is something Is she even more bitchy than Dorlina She' s even more bitchy than Ngor Fai's mother She always talks behind people's back All the co-workers scare her The president must trust her a lot Yes He let her handle all the business in our company even buying toilet paper I go to check it out OK It is too bad if you take this Those are okay Remember, we come here for destruction Yes, ruin their virginity They are coming It's great Cattle-stomach on rice is the best already? I've told the chef to do something special Whatever you like to eat I like it to go with chili sauce I want to put some sugar on it It will the good to go with salt & soy sauce White pepper too Will you get diarrhea? I don't know, but this is yours Stealing I recognized him, he is Fo Ca Tung Our president? Yes Then we don't have to search his drawer with all this effort I want to know what is in there and whether he has the sense of belonging to this company If the drawer is empty That means he doesn't plan to stay long If there are lots of private stuffs That means he will stay as long as he can and pay more attention on the business That's right Young man, why don't you go to lunch? It saves time if I have bread here Save some more time for studying You are real working hard I'm new here, I should work harder Want some? No thanks you've brought a sleeping bag? Yes, I also have toothpaste and tooth brush and all kinds of drugs I am prepared for O.T. You are interested in stock? No, I don't have the money I tell you something The share prices of our firm will rise Really? Yes But it didn't go up for a long time It's OK, as long as the chart indicates Just buy some, trust me Just buy a few shares Good lad, you can read my mind Do work hard Take a good seat You can sleep here What is it? What is it? It's heard that we make robots with some Japanese These three look real I don't think so It's quite funny Cantonese machine? It can talk, come massage me Come over Massage me Mandarin version? You speak Mandarin? Massage me Just massage, don't tickle me Massage the head Don't tickle me Massage the head Go over and tickle him Go over, but don't tickle him No... no... Smelly King, you are pal Hold his hands, let them tickle him Leave me alone, please That's funny You two are bastards No, help me fix them up What a funny game Press the head in the stool You deserve it My God Everything is broken So what? It's our job They must know it was us They are not that smart How can they know it was us? Because we look bad I don't look bad Honey, when you see the 3 robots You will admire them If the experience works and it becomes a hot stuff in Japan We will be rich then The Japanese will come at 2 it's almost time I show you something I tell them to move together Watch We have done something touchy No We are here to demolish There is only demolition I have another idea Mr. Fok, we are in a hurry Can we look at the robots first? Please wait We have some electrical problem here and we can't show you the robots No, the power supple is fine Great Nice come out The 3 robots have something fantastic They have the ability to learn You can teach him to do the house work and serve you the best way you like Let me demonstrate Do as I say Put up the left hand, right hand Jump... dance Hit yourself 80 times, harder... You hit me Mal-function, we try another day Sorry, I am late Go back first For compensation It'll be fine, director Your robots are a mess We are not interested Wait till I finish my demo They are not common robots They are future warriors Their main function is for security Miss, come over Me? Please Thanks When you are back home exhausted Just press the door bell The robot recognizes its master it will embrace you and massage you And all your tiredness will be gone If he's not living in this house The robot, when seeing him... Bruce Lee is amazing Everybody, this type of robot has some special skill Miss, please come around Hello, I am Mr. Fok I'm going to get some girls tonight Just tell Mr. Fok Understood Mr. Fok is having a meeting tonight Men do work hard What a nice thing Great Mr. Fok, we want 10,000 robots It has to be fast We need more promotion later on Mr. Fok, what does this new guy do? I am the office boy Yes, he likes telling jokes He's our senior asst administrator I'm not, Mr. Fok Mr. Fok said you are Thanks, Mr. Fok And my friends... All the same We sign the contract tomorrow? Good Please What a world, office boys in suits Mr. Fok hires them personally Do advise me please Mr. Fok hires them personally They should be closer Do advise me please Here is the lift I know Which floor? 15th You may go now Yes sir Brother It is a touchy one We have to pretend till the end We have to learn from him When I ask yes or no, you say yes, ok? That's easy May I sit down? No seats? I am Andy Tsui the new assistant administrator I know, promoting you is Mr. Fok's biggest mistake of this year I will try hard There are at least 30 people like you... say this to me each year I hope I can change your impression They said you should wear contact lens What do you think? Yes Nonsense, I am not that kind of woman Who cares only about the look Of course not, otherwise Horny I can't say it A young man should be honest I am not a big mouth He said you are most charming Horny, did you mean it? Of course, she's the only one He's too flamboyant That's why I shouldn't say it Excuse me, I have to go Beauty It's yours This one is better Sorry Miss Cher, all gone What day is today? Valentine's day Why people must send flowers on Valentine's Day? Bad taste Valentine's day doesn't mean to be lovers It also means you are someone respectful One of the 30 hard work youths Miss Cher, the flowers are beautiful I told him not to send to the office But I have too many at home Take it out and put it just wherever Ok See who hasn't got any flower and give her one It feels bad without some flowers today Yes How can it be? Michael, change the tyres for me I have an appointment! Sorry You bastard, don't give me a hand If you make any mistakes I will pay it back Miss Cher, still here? How nice you are still here Help me to change the tyres Some bastard stole my tyres Do you have four spare tyres? No I can't help Let me see Nice idea, huh? You help her find the tyres he'll treat you well Where can I find them? Don't count me in This's Dorlina's favourite car We're friends, aren't we? Fine Thanks Andy That's all right, Miss Cher Just call me Feliciana Fel... oh never mind Cher is my Mom's family name Really? I should call you sister It's not too late But you could be younger Don't flatter me I think I am older Really? Horny is a nice guy He gave me everything on his cars You really don't know? What? He's been dreaming of loving you When he'd first seen you... He stopped all contacts with other women and said he had to keep a pure body for you He's crazy That's dumb You will never choose him Or else he's lucky He really means it Don't be too cruel A little bit Well, to be a little bit kind I try going out with him Are you serious? Don't tell him I am afraid he'd be shocked What if we go out in groups We go to the disco together OK, I will tell him This's excited? I had tried the toughest one and now one more for me Dorlina won't let me go out at night Let me do it Women have no right to decide We pick you up now Whom are you talking to? Just the weather report Wash it carefully it is worth a few thousands Why so expensive, you don't need it So you don't need to wear underwear then? Horny, we are sorry What? Horny, we are sorry this time We missed your dad at the border The sneaker has got him I didn't know you had a father in China I didn't tell you before Just don't want to let you know his mother was a slut The sneaker wants $50,000 Of course not It's no good at get him here He'll send him back if you pay Or he'll send him here Right Don't know this true or not What's that? It is an electrical chastity belt If you are horny It will beep Really? Come over and I'll tell you something See how you can fool with the girls Hey, that bitch hasn't come yet Wait Hi, handsome Who is Andy? Andy? Which Andy? Who? Not me It doesn't exist in the world Frank, you have to help me I'm Robinhood, I'll try Please help me with that Cher woman That will be the end of me, no What can we do then? Do it yourself I just have $10,000 left, all yours You fix it up for me $10,000 in cash You won't help me? I will $10,000 I am free this time So soon Stay calm Shit Stay calm What's the noise? The alarm from the shop nearby Frank, give me back $10,000 No, I will keep my words I will settle it Let me do it myself Unless you give me $10,000 more Fine, but just for today Damn it Bo This is Julianna Let me introduce, he is... Bengo Let's talk inside OK Sit over there Let get some drinks there Good two, thanks Iced water What are you doing? Forest on fire Dad, I'm good to you Don't tell mom Don't worry, I won't I didn't tell you the affair of your mom and the landlord I have nothing to say Do you really wanna try? I don't believe you can read my mind Those in China are better I know what you are thinking by touching your hand Try You liar, you have a wife Don't come to see me anymore Are you all right? Who are you trying to avoid? I am sorry... You are afraid of that punk? How do you know? Sometime I can read people's mind I'll help you get out of this Good Don't look Go to hell It's fine now Thanks No, but you can give me a ride I don't have a car Good Is it here? Yes They will surely be dead Go back and have a dance Inside? Yes, his aunt told me so his father and brother are here too That old folk, he lied to me It's his brother's fault Kwai would never go such a place Don't worry, aunt I am famous of controlling my husband I'll get him out for you You need a reward for the ride? No Are you afraid of these two women? Yes, I owe them money I better leave from the back door See you Kwai, you... So you are really fooling around Aunt asked me to look for you with Amy You see what's behind you Let's run Wait, aunt Do me a favour, say you didn't see me No, I can't lie I'll be good to you Give me $3,000 first I'd rather surrender You do what I said Okay, whatever you say... Since we're friends, give me then Put it on my account Hey... This one looks like a beggar This one is an idiot This one looks awful If I were his father I would rather have no son Do you agree? What did you say? No, I meant you have a good father who gives much such a handsome face Tell me if you showed dad here No, mom, no No? I saw Kwai was here Kwai? Didn't he pick up his dad with my husband? Why is he here? Right What's matter? Go and search them out Dorlina is coming Mr. Rex is looking for us I'm dead man It's the end of my world Which Dorlina? His elder sister She doesn't like him to be with other woman I'll give her a good lesson That's too much Your face is dirty Go to toilet and clean it up What should we do now? Rambo Long time no see Streaker What happened? Let's carry him back home in first Check if the old man is home Anything else? Horny, let's go home with him So early? Let's go Are you crazy? What's wrong with you? Don't push that hard Where're you going to supper I want to make a phone call Jesus Oh, shit What should we do? I've got it, come Hurry up, don't block the way Hey, don't talk to the phone too long Hey, it's none of your business What do you want, you stupid bitch You want a fight? I don't think you even dare to touch me Okay, take this Brother, he is the betrayer Kill him Help... This is terrible, somebody get killed Take his body to show the boss You had better watch out don't call the police I saw nothing My panty Horny Hey, we are friends! You said you'll pick up dad but you just stay here for the whole night Not yet You look like working through the night Young people should word hard It's not that hard actually Security told me that you left 5 mins after me I just call there they said you just came Anyway you work a little bit harder than me Yes, it's ok that you asked someone to do the work for you but you should copy it once more It's too obvious if there're different styles of writing Good idea What's the matter? Mr. Lau, distance call from Mr. Cheng Put it on Hello Lau Oh, ya How are you? You have a good time I'll pick on him He really want to get in Fox's Luckily you've told me I don't even know he is the son of Tsui I'll come back in a few weeks You put an eye on them Sure... I hired a security guard He will watch out for them, ok? Good Security guard, who's that? Mr. Fok hold a meeting with all the executive because he wants to introduce his daughter Who's just graduated and back from Switzerland I know Come here, I tell you something And, my cousin's wife get the real power of this company sixty percent However, she doesn't care anything Be a Yes-man, she likes to show off My wife still needs two partners for Mahjong You and Ken play with her Why're you still wearing your clothes? I don't want to be sick Or are you hiding something from us? No, I'm clean I can show you everything If not so, take off the clothes and get in the water Come on, take it off Take it off No Okay! I do it for you No... What happen to your chest? You really want to know? Yes Don't you regret Oh, real sexy I've got hair on my chest just like Sean Connery All girls love me I don't want to hurt them So I won't show to anyone You are so great Let's go swimming Fine with me Let's go together I learned Kung Fu when I was three years old Karet black belt when I was seven I challenge Bruce Lee's nanny when I was twelve Then I learn free-style fighting boxing till now But those related to swimming? I was so busy learning them that's why I've no time to learn swimming I told you to give the chance to win Never... You do it so well I don't need to do this You're against somebody Nowadays young man take money too seriously It doesn't cost much, this's just a game My neck is killing me Andy, it is your turn It's my turn Let see if I can win Let's see Really this one, I got it Where's the hair come from? Horny is it yours? The commercial said it's agglutinant I've got sex disease, don't touch me Oh, no I worry if it is a contagious disease Don't swim here if you got the disease You're ridiculous Don't swim with us if you get the disease Don't be angry, Miss Cher I still love you even you get the disease Seven circles Be careful, you may lose My neck is killing me You play it You won the last game, let's see if luck's still with you this time Five circles Match, then thousand What happen? Itchy eyes? Don't cheat! Young man No Too risky, nine bamboo Four circuit Match Seven Bamboo You junk Don't glance over here North Match Pay now Are you crazy, this one is too risky Let us see what you have No need, I pay Ma How are you? Everybody This is my daughter, Nicole This is sales department manager Mr. Lau Manager, Mr. Shou Yu Ke You look striking, Miss Fok Beautiful, intellectual I'm sorry, I don't mean that She's not intellectual God won't get jealous I ask for it Is you? You are fine Everything all right that night? All right You know each other? I suppose so Daughter do you know what they are thinking? Nothing How come? She get super-natural power She'll know what you think once tough your hand What were you thinking just now? I think Nicole is real nice Nicole is the one I love the most You're great Sure No... Why not? We get in Fok's to destroy his business What else is it for then? We want to take revenge If you go out with Nicole that means you're running over Robert We can do whatever we want by then It means I have to lie to Amy? No one knows if we don't say a word It means we lie to Nicole Hey, we only have a month left If you still can't get Nicole you can't be the executive committee We can't take revenge once Robert is back It is never too late to take revenge I must get rich by myself Is that true? Don't dream too much I don't think so I have a friend, who want to get rich in his early twenties He didn't go out with rich girls And make his own effort He almost succeeds after 15 years and almost get rich No, he sells richness candy on the street Uncle, you heard what we said? What do you think? You always say whatever you want I don't know what're you talking about Just save it let's see if we can get her I can't think of any plans The atmosphere is very important for romance Reserve a whole restaurant and hire a band Scattering flowers all over It's cost much Today is pay-day give me all your money I'll do it nice for you Bill Where are you going? That's him What happened? I bet all the money on the horse racing Hey, you put all the money on gambling? Everyone said the horse must win If it loses, I chop my head off I am going to chop you off into pieces Revenge for our money You hit me So what? Then I'm not gonna share the money with you Don't you know the bet that I made Win, double, place triple win, I got it all I'm getting rich now Getting rich Come massage for me Let's rent the whole restaurant for a night and have dinner with Nicole My manager said if it is possible Please pay the deposit first Sure, Horny, you pay the bill Horny, here you are I go and check the bill Yes I just played cards with Bill He said Big Mouth lose money all the time So we win big money So he has a dollar and ninety cents left You stupid jerk So we're not gonna rent the restaurant Then I take the flower back No money no music Hey, go up quickly We play funeral music Don't worry about it where are the flowers? Coming There is pretty good But, I can only afford it once a month We try South Sea Chicken with rice I treat you next time I'm a man of the man Show me your hand It has no fun if you know everything Ok, we wear gloves next time Stop, what kind of music is it? You don't like it let's play another one The flowers are very interesting How do you like it? How come it's only us here? You reserve the whole restaurant? No, no It's over luxurious Hey, I really don't have so much money What happened? What is going on? Big Brother Shing is inside he beats me up so bad The fate is helping me to take revenge for my brother You go ask people for help I go kill Big Brother Shing first You call a hundred people I call two hundreds Don't make it big, people will get hurt Yes Let them be, they're doomed Bring the guns too Gun? Yes Let's go I'm just passing by Don't go, the food there is good Thye may not be able to get you just go inside and sit Please don't We scare all the guests away Hey, somebody's coming What is happening here Big Brother Shing is inside I must revenge for my brother You call two hundreds helpers you call a hundred and I call three hundreds Go kill him now OK Go get a gun Excuse me Hey, don't walk around here There's a war going on upstair Let's go Do you know who I am? I am Marker, the younger brother of Mark What a coincidence I am the older brother of PC This time we're really asking for it Sir, this's just a joke Yes Yes, we're just kidding Get lost now! Yes, sir Shit, let's go in Uncle, the food here is good Really? Why don't you go in? Dad this is not old black and white movie forcing me to be with an American Chinese He's much richer than Kwai On behalf of me just have a dinner with him once Just once What a coincidence Amy is coming in I pick it up So familiar So familiar Nicole Amy Nicole Who is this? She is my primary school mate Nicole Amy You know each other? Oh, no Andy, come out quickly I'm coming I just can't find it Come out The fuse's burned out Jesus Amy, this's my boyfriend, Andy How are you? How are you? I don't feel well I get to go to the rest room Go quickly... Why all the lights are off? Happy birthday, lady Today is not my birthday It may be one of your girl friends' birthday No, you are my only girl friend There are more than thirty candles You... Though I lie to you I am twenty nine You don't have to tease me like that You told me to buy the birthday cake Don't worry, I will take all the shit I got in first, talk to you later Don't tell Kwai I've come Sure... You know what to do, right? Amy, could you be away for a while? I'm very Ionely You see how much he loves you Amy is here? Oh shit Why can't she be here? You are her father we are on the same boat Why? Kwai said that you're having dinner with Shou Yai And called Fan come and beat him up Are you threatening me? No, Fan's brought us help here Don't you know he's a triad member? How many people? Don't ask! We're looking for someone Oh, God, they're coming What should we do, uncle? Amy goes to rest room, quick Amy Amy He is Bad Temper Fan Hey, what a coincidence Do you have a date with someone? No, I want to kill someone My best friend's wife comes here with her boy friend I get to kill that fucker Please calm down Don't you stop me I got to kill him He comes to kill I don't think so I got you, I know you You are Amy's father? You come with Amy? No, I didn't come with her What should we do? It's OK someone gave me wrong information saying a fucker messed with Amy I killed a couple people last year I chopped one's leg off But he still stucked with Amy So, I chopped off his arm Why? I also found the man introducing Amy to him I took all his teeth Uncle, I get to go Pay the bill first What is the matter? Amy No, is not Where is that thousand dollar? I don't know, check the bill first I didn't eat anything I didn't eat anything That means we don't have to pay let's go That's great It's fixed Fan Fan's best friend is Amy's boyfriend Horny told us Amy went to the bathroom No wonder I saw Horny We better go now No, you deal with Fan I go and tell Amy better stay there That's no use So, you and Ken deal with Fan I leave with Amy, all right? Okay Hurry up It's really you I am sorry Kwai What a surprise, don't say a word I am a poor men now I don't have any money It's ok that you like someone else It is my dad who forced me to do so This is the first time Once you have the first time second time is following Ok, whatever you say But I tell you, I didn't betray you I got nothing to say if you think you're right Really It's you who always lies What about Joanna, did I forgive you? It is my fault, I misunderstood you I am sorry Hey, brother Bye-bye Bye-bye Well, everything's fine now Andy is very smart Come in, I have to talk to you What? I heard some news What news? Mr. Lau gets bribed We can fire him if we have the evidence Fire him How do we get the evidence? He had Robert Cheng's support The evidence could be in the office Come in He looks like dreaming Prince Valiant Help Don't wake him up She has bad breath It is better than yours Quick Find it? Yes Which one should it be? They're all in English Let me see Which one? You bastard, go to hell Don't wake her up Better let her have a kiss We are in trouble if he wakes up I go to find the proof Damn... Quiet, take it easy Pal, it is catus You want the whole lot Pull them out first, please The accounts record That's great You deserve it Help I'm beaten up in both dream and reality This firm has the potential If we work hard It would have a bright future You are sick or what? We are here to destroy And now you want to help them What's on your mind? Listen to me I have finished reading the files It was Robert Cheng who made us become bankrupted I have read the information of the Board of Directors No one made us purge Robert Cheng is our only enemy He will report duty in two weeks Do you think he will come back earlier? Yes Mind your words Good boy I'm surprised that You'd be promoted as managers in 10 weeks But I don't think you'd expect that We come back 2 weeks earlier Hell, I nearly had to lick your toes What do you want then? You want to resign or get fired? Well, starting from this afternoon I don't want to see you in the office anymore Mr. Vick Yes, Manager Keep an eye on them they can only take away their belongings Yes You can find another job I'm sure you will survive Don't give up, you still have chances I'll beat you Don't you dare! We are 2 bodies in 1 soul What? Stop Stop Stop Stop Let's go Don't move Watch out, you bastard Andy, we will support you Robert Cheng is right I am Tsui's second son I don't care who you are Since you have joined Fok's Everything you do is for the company's own good Horny, I'll miss you Me too I'll miss you too We have to stop Robert Cheng We work to rule Work to rule? Yes, we lanuch a half-work campaign We'll only do half of the work What? Only half of a bowl left? It's not cooked yet It's only halfly-cooked It's called the half-work campaign I have been eating a lot of meals Give me a cup of coffee Mr. Cheng Morning Mrs. Fok Morning Robert, what do you think? Fire those troublemakers Or pay them half See who's tough Shit What does it mean? We should further our action We speak half of the words So I say shit This's not the problem Everybody loves Andy We can't fire them on behalf of Andy You are the General Manager You have the authority But they are the assistants to the director And responsible for finance and development Andy They may fight back I think we are all mature I don't agree to close them down I'll tell them to start all over again Brother, do advice for me Right, shit What do you mean? Say half of the sentence Mr. Fok, if you want to hire him You quit? No, I welcome Mr. Tsui Thanks The company will be even better if you guys work together It's Nicole's birthday the day after tomorrow I want you all to come to my villa in Lantau Don't be late Sure Is Amy's birthday on the same day? What shall me do? Buy some flower first Let them choose I know Miss, 3 dozens roses Two bundles and two cards please Okay Hey Kwai, it's Amy Nicole invites me to a party at her villa Our birthday is on the same day She asks me to go with my boyfriend Her boy friend will be there too I said yes, and tomorrow at 9:00am Boyfriend? Listen to me, Amy Listen to me, Amy Shit For you, like it? It'll be ready Amy, where's your boyfriend? He'll be late, he has something to do Men are always like this Where's your boyfriend? He has to meet someone, he's coming Make a phone call to Amy And I'll tell Kwai Amy, your call We have the mobile phone Thanks Hello Guess who I am? Who is that? I know your family, your dad and mom I give you three minutes and guess who am I Tell me who you are? Hello, who's there? What a big mosquito My god, my contact lens I can't see Help me find it Nothing Why are you so late? Amy, my boyfriend Andy We've met last time, but it was dark Good afternoon Why Japanese? I have to practice Come on, dad is over there Hello, who are you? I am Chow Yun Fat Horny, help me into the room I can't see Don't tell anyone Daddy You are so late I have to go out later The Japanese are hard to deal with We have to distinguish work and play Just ignore them Daddy said so, don't go But... I know you have learnt Kung Fu I learnt it too, let's practise Practice? No... Let's try Not bad How can we get rid of him? Fool him Get a bucket of water Your kung fu is real good Are you all right? I need a rest You can, you are young Again? Just a while Okay What's matter? I have to make an important call Let's stop Here I am I have lost my glasses Really? Why are you all wet? It's raining out there Really? It was fine just now It is occasional Yes Let's go home and get the glasses I had told Dorlina to get it for me Dorlina? Horny, are you all right? End of the world Amy, can I come in? I'm changing clothes Amy What a ball Well, my boyfriend has come Kwai... How are you? How are you? Did you see Andy? No I look for him Fine See if there's a hair-dryer You're looking for me? Yes, where have you been? I was looking for my enemy He made me all wet He's Amy's boyfriend? Amy, which Amy? The one I saved last time Now I regret Her boy-friend is a real villain He looks like me and his name is Kwai He's fooling around with my face Really? Yes So? He tricked me once and I have to revenge So Fan is his pal I am Fan's pal too He said he would stay neutral Don't worry, it'll be all right Don't make any trouble It's all because of you Happy birthday Thanks Better to put some brandy in the champagne And some beer And some rum It'll easily get drunk I'll be with you Dorlina will kill me I got you No next time What's wrong with you? There are no cops around Cops? Good idea Police station? This is a secret information I know a drug trafficker Dorlina She's coming in to Lautau She's got a lot of heroin, right She likes digging nose She'll come, just keep her detained Better have a body search too And a thorough slaecken I am playing a game on radio called Bullshit I am sorry, I have to go now You don't believe me, you too? Go to hell You villain, want to get me drunk Get you drunk? That's the only way So hot here, no fresh air What are you doing, Andy? Andy? Thank god Kwai, big trouble Dorlina has got Horny Nicole is a good drinker I am so drunk Drunk? Any way to get recovered? I have an idea Isn't it quick? And Robert Cheng knows we are here and asked Mr. Vick come and fix us We are in big trouble Yes, a very big one actually What is it to call us all out? Well, it's a real ball tonight and it's better to join together So we asked every one out Amy's boyfriend, Andy... We can play card and mahjong Then it is a real ball Aunty, did you see my friend Dorlina No She disappeared after giving me the glasses Mummy Nicole, where is Andy? I don't know where he has gone Amy, where is your boyfriend? I don't know Stop, please... No Stop fighting... Stop... Let's talk, don't fight Stop Kwai Andy hits Kwai Why were you fighting? Let's have a look Stop... Stop Kwai Andy It's (Andy's Kwai) fault Let's call the police What're you doing? Don't come any closer You're crazy Give me back my pants It may not be yours How can I go out without pants? So do I Take off your pants now Take it off No Take it off What happened? Listen I am the General Manager, do what I said How can I go out without pants? Only if you pay How much? $1,000 I owe you that No credit No, never What are you doing? No... I do it if you don't Kick it off, rush in Don't get me wrong Mr. Tsui Please put away the umbrella Is it raining out there Yes, signal number 3 is hoisted It may change to number 8 Weather's changing so fast I get you a cup of coffee Thanks I've just received some belated flowers Let me give him a call No need, it was a mistake I want a happy birthday My god, what a bad mistake You are smart to hide this from us But you made that big mistake What about Amy? Of course I have got Nicole's card You promised you won't lie to me again and you disappoint me I don't want to see you anymore Amy... Andy Andy or Kwai? Whatever I want to ask you a question Who do you like more? Amy or I? Tonight 7:30 Number 10 signal is hoisted Stay home if possible Be prepared for the typhoon I lost everything I'm worse, I can't go home Dorlina will kill me No, she can't get the premium if she kills you She'll ask you to commit suicide Go to hell It is fate But I feel sorry for Amy A movie says: Love means never have to say you're sorry It must not be a blockbuster Uncle told me everything I was wrong You should give me up for the sake of the Tusi's Don't be silly, I feel sorry It's much better now What a nice couple Sis, you are pleasing him again Why are you here? To congratulate you Love is the only thing you want Get out, all of you We deliver the invitation card Robert and I are getting engaged next week You'll never be so lucky My father-in-law agreed to help you before but now he has to think about it You son of the bitch, go to hell What? What? What... I help you I should help myself off this What are you doing? It can't settle out there What happened? Don't worry, I go to the penthouse first What's going on? Will the house fall on the street? Nonsense, to win mark six is easier This house is tough as rock Press it hard Stop, help him first It is the best thing you've ever said Coming Be calm, climb up Hurry... ready? Robert, get the two girls out You bastard Leave him, save them first Kwai... Give me your hand You bastard, I got you at last Where have you been for these 10 days? Bitch Help me to save them The only way is to climb up there It's ok now No, we'll be all dead Mind your words What are friends for then? Be quick You have big butt Better go in pairs, or we'll fall... I didn't know that I was still strong Try harder My pants, they are falling Kwai, hold me tight Kwai, don't give up They are pulling me up Don't speak and save your energy Pull me up quick Kwai, be quick Good, it's over now Kwai Let's go Go down Watch out Quick Kwai It stops raining What happened? Dad, Mom Nicole Mr. Fok, they beat me Nicole, let's go You nearly killed me, why should I? I am here to ask you to calm down I know you love Andy but not Robert I just knew that Andy loves Amy Andy and Amy belong together Mr. Fok, I was wrong to hide everything I am sorry Don't be silly, you help us a lot I support you to start again Mr. Fok, what about me? You resign tomorrow To help us start again? Pal, you deserve it Beat him No... leave me alone Help me beat him down and I'll give you $200,000 $200,000? $300,000 $300,000? $300,000 Go to hell For your medical treatment So you know who the devil is It feels so good to be good guy Yes Horny, is she your wife? Horny Shut up, quiet I care about you all the time I know if you told me so She's my wife But if you love me I'll treat you very good too Are you out of your mind? What could I hang out with? She's for you Thank you That's not too bad You don't have the right to say Dreams are always better than reality
