 

                        Okay, let's go for a take Get ready to carry her forward Okay? Is sound ready? Ready Camera ready? All set, director Then let's go for it Scene 3, Shot 1, Take 2 Action! Excuse me... Sorry! I'm so sorry to be late, director Cut! I'll be ready in a moment, sorry Producer, deal with this Hey, untangle the wires for me! Sorry... Xiao Tang... Sorry I'm late, Miss Lieh I'm really sorry, I'll be ready in a moment Sorry! What's wrong with you? You're not our sound recordist any more Didn't I tell you last time? Kun's doing the job now Did you forget? Sorry... I forgot Excuse me... Excuse me Director, I'm really sorry Excuse me Miss Lieh, I'm sorry You really have to pull yourself together Wait... Don't worry, I'm not a cop The money we agreed on... And here's another 3,000 Let's have some fun Let's be clear, I don't do kinky Relax, it's just a little game Don't be scared What's your name? Meng-Meng Meng-Meng You seem to be afraid of cops I'm not afraid, they just annoy me Annoy you? That's good That's very good Ever heard of role-playing therapy? What kind of play is that? Never mind Now you're a cop... and I'm you What? Now we're going to try some role-playing You play a cop and I play you What the hell? Are you a masochist? Has any cop treated you badly? No, no, but you must have been! Then what are you afraid of? I'm not afraid, I just... ...I just don't do that stuff It's simple Just play the part of some bad cop you've met I don't know how It's very easy, actually Watch me... Now... ...I'm you Fuck off... I'm not that stupid Don't do that, Mr Cop Oh! What's that hard thing? What hard thing? What? This one! You fucking cunt! I'll arrest you if you keep talking shit I'm so scared, Mr Cop Don't scare me like that I'm just a delicate girl Not tough like you men One look at us and you get a hard-on... And then you want it And when you finish, we have to pay you! You're sick! Well, blowhard, you got that right Fucking smartass, are you? Get down on your belly! On your belly! Don't you know... ...a cop is a gangster with a badge! Get the idea now? Now give Mr Cop a good fuck! Oh, Mr Cop! Lift up your ass! You're so bad, Mr Gangster Cop Sluts are there to be fucked, aren't they? Mr Cop! You want to fuck me? Then I want to rape you! That hurts! Hello? Sorry, I can't come today It's okay, your work comes first Have you finished moving in? Need any help? It's done That was quick! Then... ...how about a kiss? No I have to get something Your work comes first Then... bye-bye Didn't you say you were busy? I'm here, ain't I? The first three years with my husband... ...we made love almost every day In different places At different times As soon as met... ...we couldn't tear ourselves apart Wherever we found ourselves... ...we had to do it right away Just like animals in heat But I was never ashamed I just thought... ...no other couple in the world... ...could match what we had Just as no-one could match us Each time we saw each other... ...every cell in our bodies tingled... ...longing for each other's cells As if they were crying out... ...mouths wide open... "I want, I want, I want" That's very good So what's the problem? Now it's different, isn't it? You can't imagine your husband... ...making love to another woman Learning that he's having an affair... ...has totally destroyed you How did you know? The love that thrilled you fell apart Your trust in the man you trusted most fell apart It started a chain reaction Your belief system fell apart Your philosophy fell apart The meaning of life fell apart Your very self fell apart... ...into pieces You panic But no matter how hard you try... ...you can't put the pieces back together Every day you ask yourself... "What's going on? What's going on?" "How can this be happening? How can this be happening?" Every day you recall every last detail of your lovemaking Every position Every one of his caresses Every angle he twisted your body Every one of your cries of ecstasy All your orgasmic pleas to stop And then the painful thoughts kick in How can he do the same things with another woman? You imagine your husband going to her And right after she opens the door... ...how he pulls up her skirt pulls down her panties... ...tells her to lift up her ass All the things he liked to do to you You imagine them fucking in the open, in tall grass On the staircase of some building In your husband's car... ...randomly parked somewhere in Taipei Or maybe your husband's driving... ...and she's going up and down on his crotch You imagine her groaning, panting, begging You imagine him saying to her... "I love fucking you" "I want to fuck you to death" All of those words which you thought... ...he could only say to you It's just as if the two of them... ...are giving their selves to each other Falling asleep in each other's arms All of this keeps playing in your mind It's freaking you out You're almost going insane Day after day after day after day Every day you cry so hard you can't sleep And in the morning you wake up in complete shock You sit up from a sleeping position... Your mouth is dry... You're desperately searching... But you don't know what you're looking for Still, you understand very clearly... ...that you're gone You no longer exist You don't have the slightest sense of being alive You panic... panic... Panic Without knowing it, you're in tears You can't stop crying You just can't stop What should I do? "Gensheng Road, Taidong City" Is this for the previous tenant? Miss Tseng? She lives in 402 No, I've just moved in there She was there before me Number 538, Apartment 402 Let me check Oh, you're Miss Wu... Wu Ruoyun She's already moved out But she keeps getting letters Can I leave them here with you? Then she can pick them up when she comes back I can't do anything about that Well then... Sorry Never mind Sorry, sorry... "Miss Tseng Yazhu" This is the fourth one already There's no sender's address The stamps caught my eye They're all mailed from the East coast All from different places Hello? In a meeting It wasn't planned... A foreign client just flew in I'm can't do dinner How about a drink? How about a drink and a movie? There are people here I love you I love you I love you I don't know yet I'll be through here soon, okay? It's a foreign client I'll finish here soon, okay? Fine, let's talk when I'm back Here's another brand See if this is what you want This ones It plays cassette tapes? Yes, yes, if it's a tape, it will play it But I don't recommend it Seriously Everyone uses MP3 now This kind of thing is obsolete Ruoyun... Aren't you an Aquarius? I found this site on the web It says if I'm a Cancer... ...and you're an Aquarius... ...then the two of us... ...are a perfect match! It couldn't be better! Yazhu... Do you remember this place? We once sat here together... ...recording the sound of the sea I remember you said that... ...you liked that I looked so serious while I was working You liked to stand beside me, holding your breath... ...imagining all the awesome sounds... ...I was capturing with my boom mike You liked my sensitivity to sound and my dedication It was right here... ...that we made the wish together To travel around the country... ...recording sounds from every corner of Taiwan And it was you who came up with the title for all these sounds It was... "The Sounds of Formosa" What's inside it? An audio tape Thank you Where're you from? I'm from Taipei What's your name? Do you have a girlfriend? Will you introduce me to one? No! What's your name? Me? My name's Xiao Tang Any pretty teachers in your school? Yes! What's your name? Me? My name's Xiao Tang Any pretty teachers in your school? Yes! Miss Lily Chen! How many characters in her name? Three! "BETELNUTS" Hi, what would you like? A beer Beer? NT$50 Thanks "This is a love connection" "Between you and me" "When the phone rings..." "...it's time for love to whisper" "Nobody but us can have it" "Not even for a fleeting moment" "Because for us..." "...there's never enough time" "La la la" "Hotline you and me" "La la la" "Hotline you and me" "Hotline you and me" "La la la" "Hotline you and me" "La la la" "Hotline you and me" Hey! Who are you? Are you a 'betelnut beauty'? Yes, I am If you're the beauty... ...then I'll be... ...the betelnut "This is a love connection" "Between you and me" "When the phone rings..." "...it's time for love to whisper" "Nobody but us can have it" "Not even for a fleeting moment" "Because for us..." "...there's never enough time" "La la la" "Hotline you and me" "La la la" "Hotline you and me" "La la la" "Hotline you and me" "La la la" "Hotline you and me" Who the hell are you? I'm a betelnut Morning! Going out? That long, furry thing you're carrying... What is it? It's for recording sound Do you know... ...any special sounds around here? Special sounds? Anything striking I want to record them Special sounds... I know... Take the road behind the hotel After a kilometer or so... ...you come to a wood There's some interesting sounds there What kind of sounds? You might not find them interesting It depends I think they are That's okay, go on There's lots of squirrels there In the afternoon... ...you can hear them courting "Gagaga!" Very noisy, but funny to hear! Really Go take a look Okay Should I go to the Karaoke with him tonight? With who? The guy I was just talking about! The funny guy who sang with me yesterday Will you come too? Sure We can all go together Good We can scam him for some cash Are you sure? He's a tourist Why not? Tourists are asking to be scammed! Anyhow... Forget about going to Karaoke Go straight to his room We'll need a signal Something to tell us when to burst in ...a signal Go straight to his room Forget about going to Karaoke Go straight to his room Just meet up with him in his room? Ma'am... Young man Excuse me... Did you get that sound? Which sound? The sound of the squirrels courting Oh... Yes, I did Great! Thanks Ma'am, I'm looking for the guest in Room 252 One moment, let me see... He's still out Really? Thank you You're welcome Hello... He's not here I'll play you that "Gagaga" sound right away Good Wait a minute... Hey... Have you heard the sound of squirrels courting? What's it like? Listen carefully... "Gagaga" "Gagaga" That's right! You learn fast... No... Now you're a squirrel To get me undressed, you have to woo me loudly! Wow! Of all the people I've met... ...you're the most talented Make it loud! "Gagaga" Louder "Gagaga!" Still louder "Gagaga!" What the fuck are you two doing? You are so screwed! You cheat on me? I should use you like a whore! Having fun with my wife? You're in big fucking trouble! Who are you? I'm your fucking father! Ladies and gentlemen... I know what you're up to But don't go on with this How much should we take him for? Half a million Too little... a million I think one and a half million Half a million each Ah Bin... When we burst in... ...you take the pictures Okay? Yeah Got a camera? My cellphone will do How is this possible? What's going on? Hurry, grab the stuff, run! Quick! Hey! Are you alright? Hey! What are you doing? I saved your ass! What do you do for a living? You don't have to get back to work? If I tell you, you won't believe me I... ...deal drugs Never... The drugs I deal, you can't see They anesthetize people's minds Sounds complicated What the hell does that mean? You are seriously weird Whatever sound you want... ...I can make it for you "La la la" "Hotline you and me" "Of all the people I've met..." "...you're the most talented" "Hey!" "I came to save your ass!" Xiao Tang! We'll launch a big media campaign In magazines... ...newspapers, on buses, on the internet... All at the same time! I must also thank you... ...for the successful press conference The clients are very satisfied You're our man for the next press release I'll treat you to dinner sometime French, Indian... whatever you like Anything you want Of course, there's plenty of time... Don't think that sending her those tapes... ...will make her come back to you Just regard this trip... ...as a ceremony of self-redemption Don't expect too much Don't think you know everything just because you're a shrink You have a cellphone? Can I borrow it? Hello? Hello It's me Ah Tsai? Where are you? I'm in... ...Taidong What the hell are you doing there? That's typical, you're so irresponsible You take off without a word Many people are worrying about you! You know that? You just think about yourself So self-centered! Who is it? It's me Can I come in? It's very late I'd like to sleep here tonight Is that okay? No, not really I saw him Your boyfriend? We're not even divorced yet Ah Tsai... Do you think the Milky Way has a sound? I've never heard that idea before That's because you've never listened Really? No, it doesn't There's no sound there You have to be in tune with it You know? Silly... October 14th, 2006 Changbing... The sound of a windbreak forest October 24th, 2006 Changbing... The sound of a windbreak forest I've found it October 16th, 2006 Chenggong... The sound of a fish auction October 26th, 2006 Chenggong... Site of the fish auction I've found it Madam Hey Sorry to bother you Please listen to this sound Listen to what? It's a tape Have a listen to see if you know where it is They're aboriginal people They sound like old folk and children There are so many windbreak forests They sound all the same But I have been to Changbing I think it's the same sound Miss Why are you listening to that? For no reason really I just want to go to... ...the place where that sound comes from To feel it Miss, why do you want to feel it? Just to feel it What's the point of that? It's too vague It's impossible to find a place just its sound Madam This envelope... Is it yours? Yes, it's ours Then do you remember... ...a sound recordist staying here before? A sound recordist? Was he holding something very big... ...like a big microphone. Very furry at the front I guess so He said he came to record the... ...the sounds of Taiwan What kind of person was he? He was very nice. Pleasant talking, nice attitude What did he look like? Look like... He was gentle looking, thin... ...very handsome, easy going Are you his ... Why are you asking so many questions? We are friends Really? If you are his friend... ...how come you don't know what he looks like? Well... Excuse me I'd been with Yazhu for five years From the time I graduated... ...right through my military service... ...until I became a sound recordist I thought we were meant for each other When I was with her... ...I felt peaceful and happy I thought she felt the same way Maybe she did, once I really loved her very much And I really needed her too There were many things that I understood... ...only after we broke up Actually she broke up with me That night, as usual... ...I called her before going to sleep We both had jobs by then So we didn't meet so often We were chatting away... ...when she suddenly said... "Don't you think we both need a change?" I thought she was kidding So I tried to laugh it off But she went on... "I want to break up with you" "I'm serious" Yazhu really wanted to stop seeing me She wasn't joking I'd always thought our world was stable With her... ...I could take all the pressures Difficulties... Setbacks... Depressions Even pains Because I knew... ...with her understanding... ...just her being there... ...she'd support me She'd believe in me She'd give me strength And that would be enough Since the break-up, my life has been a mess Why can't I remember all the details? I'm thinking of the months before... ...I couldn't accept... ...that we'd seen our last movie together That we'd slept in each other's arms... ...for the last time That we'd had a meal together... ...for the last time There were so many things we hadn't yet done together We hadn't been abroad together We hadn't seen snow together We hadn't made "Sounds of Formosa" together Now you are Yazhu I am you I expected... ...to feel sad... ...after the break-up I'd be heart-broken But I thought... ...after the pain... ...life would go on My life would still move forward I've realized only slowly... ...that since you left me... ...I don't know how to go on living... ...without you You have to be strong You know? Silly... I'm also on my own I have to take care of myself too If you truly love me... ...you have to remember what I told you Be good Don't make me worry Don't make me sad You got that? I will I'll be good I'll be good "Girl, your boyfriends..." "...are all leading lights" "Ugly guys like us..." "...don't deserve your love" "There's no place for me in your dreams" "It drives me to drink every day!" "My dearest girl..." "...goodbye from the bottom of my heart" "How can I forget you?" "Grandpa, Grandma..." "What am I to do?" "How will I ever forget her?" Miss! Sing with us! I can't sing It doesn't matter Just let it out "If you don't believe..." "...God knows" "Believe it or not..." What's your name? Ruoyun "Ruoyun, Ruoyun..." "There's no true love" Open your mind! Okay Just sing along, alright? Then, when I sing... ...you follow Okay Go for it Ruoyun! Ruoyun! Now you can sing! Take care! Goodbye! Goodbye! Take care! Goodbye! Hey... What about you? What happened between you and your wife? And what's that wedding invitation in your hand all about? The girl I liked in college got married here So you came for a wedding in Taidong Hey... This was three years ago I didn't go to her wedding three years ago So you're three years late The wedding's probably over by now It was only after she got married... ...that I started to miss her I've been wondering whether or not... ...she's been happy since then I haven't seen her in ten years Surely it hasn't taken you ten years... ...to find out she's your real soulmate? Very possibly But she's already married So even you shrinks have shitty storylines! Shitty storylines indeed Gensheng Road... 577 What number is it? We're there How can that be? Where's 591? Sir... Excuse me Where's 591, Gensheng Road? You're in 589 here... ...but that's 595 over there Why is there no 591? Well... Some houses were demolished a while back It's an alley now So you might not find it Oh, I see So there's no longer a 591 That's right Do you know of a woman who got married there three years ago? Was there? In her thirties Good-looking Light-skinned and thin I really don't know No-one comes to mind You're sure it was in Taidong? You go ahead Then take care of yourself Bye bye I want to talk to you so much So why couldn't I do it? Why can't you care more about me? Why don't you ever know what I need? I'm so tired Do you know... However much physical contact we have... ...it doesn't fill the emptiness in my heart We never really get to where I want to go Now I'm sitting by the sea Recording the words I want to say to you But you won't hear them November 2nd, 2006 Do you know where I am? Do you know where I am? Please choose which service you require Please choose the amount of cash Your transaction is in progress, please wait Please take your card Your receipt is being printed, please wait Please take your receipt Your account is now overdrawn Thank you using this service Please come again Please insert your card later "Southern Most Point" Yazhu... Listen... This is the sound of the southernmost point There's still a lot I'd like to say to you But... I think... I will end... ...the recording of "Sounds of Formosa" here It takes the most distant course To come nearest to yourself And the training is at its most intricate When it leads to the utter simplicity of a tune. We have to knock at every alien door To finally come to our own To find ourselves It takes the most distant course To come nearest to yourself, Come, come, come... It takes the most distant course To arrive at the place where one started It is the final climb To arrive at absolute pastoral beauty We have to go through each illusory dream To finally come to our own door, To our own field It takes the most distant course To come nearest to yourself. It takes the most distant course To arrive at the place one misses most.
