 

                        Remember you remember the eyes Was different I saw something going As I have always Did you want to I did not say anything As always there's nothing wrong When I look in the mirror Could see That someone is watching me Nayeoteulkka it? Or, the aeyeoteulkka? The kid is exactly like me, who? Zwart Water (Two Eyes Staring) I go again You think you can look at? Absolutely How was your day? School teacher, came to the shop Do these things? Told me She knows what Now you're my mom I heard her say For that I'll have around 11 Do not worry, have fun and If you pinch the ball, or asleep I'm going to Hi Lisa What shall we do tonight? I'm early? No, heseuteone home Supposed to go Yes, ah! I was But are we going to cook? Beautiful tadpoles! Milk? Huh? What happened? Honey, what's up? Wait Give a little stir Okay, okay I want to know the kids are coming Are you sure? Says who? Lisa Mom, do not interfere She's a little sad right now He died Maternal grandmother Huh? Who is it? We've never met before 've Lived in Belgium Go to your room is playing Are you okay? Chirwotdae funeral a month ago Oh Look at me namgyeotna heritage Turn on the lights or something? My baby Oh my God! How did you know? I want to talk to Chris Hi - Ryder - It's raising updates - Sachunyieyo - Yes? - Cousin - Yes Have not changed a Your brother Ro Everybody knows I'm coming? No thanks We've got news for families - He's Peter - Hello! Peter I'll look inside Go Lisa! Come on Oh my God! Jeez! Home care Did you get in writing To the whole nun Could almost jump Unlucky's Church Can you clean if you want it Christine is going to decide Home and lived in breaking news Ma'am you say is so difficult - Look around you - Yes Charmed Big house Will also extend to the orphanage and cook Just to see your hands Articles throw some beorimyeon - I do not know - What? All ... Aft of Not create another one Why? You personal studio Have sipdaetjanah No money to spend Without bijopjido I hope you can not stop the company 're Copying each This time, you want to do something You're gonna get away? I do not know, I just profit jobs It's close to anteuwopeusido Bawooteoseurang Hendrix live there And who? Driss half rowooten It's not Then go Paris Lisa! Lisa! Hester does not have to Belgium Know I do not want to move! I'm not decided yet Can make new friends and half the Hester with me 're My best friend Hester parents Hester loves a lot It is gone, Hester A lot of parents will be sad If you're dating a new friend Deulreulkka cemetery? No, then After 2 months There is Peter Hi! Peter Go together Same nedeolrandeurang Dating'll be easy The kids have all nedeolrandeumal She'll pick me up Okay? Good luck - Pull over to the other side - Over there? For the house in mind? A sitting right there? What is your mother saenggakyieotdae? Dead, and now ... Let your face shine? Grandma, how there Guess long dead? When they found choroksaekyieotdae I'm here to interview Do you know ... Just coming Paul, please pick up the phone Or how long it takes Lisa, I can not pick up School is in the phone I do not know how long it will Come in. You're strange Anyway, we have a unique Broadband blues work It's got atmosphere, you know? Yes, I know her work Although inspired eotgin Hurst broadcast more I think it's romantic How are you? Looks pretty good I know that we can not get off work? Sure, no problem According to the collection To finish the job changed? Do you have kids? What ... I'm not No No children I do not want to have? It's important to me more work Hello? Wait a minute Well, I just Maybe you should be watching, looking at it What do you mean late? Still did not go to pick up? I did not get the message Okay, I'll pick you up I saw my daughter, Lisa? In nine years old and still do? Hey, little girl We want to eat waffles? Or go by bus? Come on Other Hang on Hang on! So what? What happened? I got accepted! Great I'm so sorry They're calling for a drink I could not refuse - Have not really met in full and dramatic - Lisa, say something? Daddy, Blood all 're Well said, You're right You look like my dad I'm not natural! Do not worry Lisa is asleep Glass of wine in celebration ought Is anyone there? Diary 1979 Christine rompeyi In your sideburns The tip of the red light Horny guy in the whiskers I do not try to light? Really? Touch Domruk, I wish you were here Domruk my dear friend Lisa! Let Your hair looks nice Tteuteulkka carpet with my mother? 'll Tear it all away And the warehouse is clean Maybe there great treasure Maybe she found Okay? Yes, This is Christine Sure, right now, hmm? No, I can do No problem And let it begin Do not worry, I Stop looking at me Honey, I'm sorry Mommy I'm working now Let's do it tomorrow, okay? Bye! Hey, is anyone there? Is anyone there? Who are you? Do not be afraid Beautiful hair Now! Finally, S gone up to the test - Are you in the studio deuleogateotni mother? - No. Tell the truth! 'm Very upset with her because of you Important was the right thing mom I really did not do anything Maybe the basement with a girl Maybe he did Who? Cellar girl Lisa, you now Listen carefully to your dad Articles in the past domrukyirang to a friend I do not care I was Do not really remember? Candy took domrukyi Domrukyi ruined toys You know what I mean? The enought than we Lived here too long I already had moved to We have something nice to eat? I want to sleep with my mum and dad? I'll be fine Mommy's not coming? Yageunhae, a lot will not be late Damn! Exactly two birthdays Children came The girl was lying down, crouching With the black eyes Nobody looked at what I do not know Does not want you to thump you guess? Little girl Have fun there? Dad! What do you do not want you beating? Birthday, was hit two people 've Got a girl lay curled up - Dark eyes had - Thump does not want you know? I knew it! Answer to the riddle is the heart Heart? Yes, her heart 're Not beating Ridge A molrateotni? You're dead? Mother's brother? Mom looked at weather You naughty aedeora Mommy doll hair cut Would grow back, saying I did She is like a baby all day uleodaeteo Until I busted Lie Good luck with your mother gave your career? You want to talk your mom? What you've done? How bad is? No, just a party Give Karen is going to die Lisa! Lisa! Do not joke with Christmas It's not funny Lisa, have something to show And, tokkida! You can keep? Until Christmas Of course, not have it What did you call? - Daisy - It's a cool name Daisy! Come on Drink up I. A copy of your name, Daisy Look, this is Lisa Here we Lisa live house Our Palace Cute? Pretty Now we have two Do you want to inflict a pretty dress? Wait here Daisy? Daisy? Daisy, are you here? Daisy? Is he here? Daisy? Nite, I found it Daisy Come on Karen day Got me a terrible story So your mother I do not love Karen said, Every time I see you, he Because he was doing flashbacks As it killed me Hi Hester was sent a card I want to ... We see why she Came in? Let's talk about Not feel like talking Grandma It was not a good person Why? So More difficult to explain They eat anything, but Why do not you know everything Why We She lives at home? Dad Trying to insist upon Paul! Take off your shoes dirty! They suck! - What are you talking about? - No big deal. Eat rice The older he gets everything Wanted to forget all Until you were born Every time I see you I'm coming And he've done He did remember Hey, wake up My dad got me something to eat What're you doing on the water? Now, are you okay? Because all Karen Who? Karen? The girl in the basement She is Karen How long have you been shown? One week Why is the deal here? I think so because the kids alone You're now as deyijirang Karen're going wrong Karen're mileotdan me Karen said she My mother ... She did what? What's up? Your sister jukyeotdae What? I'm not your sister Daetni hands on your stuff? No This really is the last Lisa! Mom? Mommy what is it? It's me, Lisa Lisa? Lisa? Lisa? Lisa, are you here? You're here Baby We do clean up as? Let's get a box Will not you tell? Can deuleoohsyeo He's done nothing, Paul I was watching, I know you're mad I think too much exaggeration Too scared Might be unable to move This is different to work domruk I want to get out of the house - I want to go back - How is that relevant? Donkeo wife? It's a slight concussion But a few days to stay 'll Be watching over Yes, thank you What we do now? Look around you Peter's hard to live here PETER way to see and do I'm here It's a few questions in Old stories of families About Karen It's ... What can I say If you're together Lower than that between the two Anyone could tell One day he fought hard Since that incident, the Really ... Antakkawotjyo Chris to boarding school Was sent Did you find it hard to Aunt In tea, cover, but But people who know Knew it So, to Chris I could see the house And Karen ... Here's a ghost Sometimes a ghost touches you, you Will seem See that door? Afraid to enter Look into one No. Do not go there Hey! Let me go! Two demon Let go of me! Lisa, what happened? - What? - Karen, died here Kid's a monster! It's okay Ok Johnny? Honey, I'm ... He told you that the devils When people die Just disappear Others, like electrical circuits of the brain Linked in It also stops any further thought Does not exist, would not Thing we have to produce reports Everything I listed in She look me dead Varanasi Lisa! Karen can come between us You are very strong We can not afford You and I Daisy Yes, Daisy Come on, this olchaengyiya Are you here now? Most are in the basement So let's go with Are you here now? There? Are watching us There's nobody here Nobody Come on Yes, I'm very sorry But I thought ... I'm sorry, I should have told you sooner Yes, but Yes Hello? I read a book deal Are you okay? Ok Not a good look I mean Fired Bullshit I just call? Crap! Who cares? Can I get another one Let's find I Update the day before yesterday I went to cultivate The length was just about passing Twin brother to you Was was I do not want to talk about The thing I do not mind me It's not you My brother told me that Dead Even if I was dead, that's it While in the hospital I'll scan the back? Michael, keep a bit to find Except for the dead never talk about it Haneungeon not too weird I without hesitation Tell away group What? Think that's a matter Depending on their position Release all hejipeo You know the problem is resolved I do not understand For me, the past 're Hiding? Yeah? I'm your husband Consideration do not know, there's something Is scrambled I did not kill anybody She did not come here to move to I did turn on the lights? Karen's dead! Now, I dream I have a dream goes on It'll be okay If I had I ... I've erased all memories in Do you know? If you did not forget his work Now I'd never We look to the Netherlands back to work Hey, donkeo! Yes! Yes! One I'll S been a week since I quit smoking man It's not about you Ok I state what is not good When I quit jeoraeteo I then had a much more serious Smoking For the boys worse Have kids? A daughter, 9 years old Cigarette smoke? Daughters do not like me now Where does it hurt? Not really Strange things keep, due Come on Past, that he was nervous? I mean, she's such a past, 're Missing? If, as your body hits home Images of the mind If the house is empty room Who want to come? I'm not loopy It's not that I'll be wrong We tied up aunt Sister In Congo, when seongyohal Something like bosyeotdae Dead souls Some guy went Madden finally smashed There are people I know I will meet you guy I'll keep in touch Do not ever leave me alone in her What happened to the PM Most do not remember In your eyes is snow I got lightheaded head My nose four nose Your voice is my voice you hear Nayeoteulkka really? Not the aeyeotna? The kid is exactly like me, who? But I remember the droplets Karen, we have two I did like the rain Sometimes one Much larger than the other one Come here You go Think about what you did Mom! Let me out Mom! Mom! Mom! Mom! Let me out Do so hard feelings Go away! Get out of me Not your fault Your mom's fault Christine always jeoraeteo Snow White's stepmother, the villainous, like I have not become you Might be better So you do not feel anything I'm dead anyway Good night I run in to your dream Everything is alright So Sweet dreams Please license - Chased effective? - Yes? Who did I come for Is speeding Sorry, but I have to go home My daughter is in danger It's Dutch Pop the trunk Teureongkeuyo? Blame your mother Christine, it's always Now that me and your room Your father and I'll talk Do not forget to clean the Lisa! Lisa! Lisa! Lisa! Karen? Lisa Lisa, Lisa! Christine! Christine! Mom? Let's go back now It must have some Now grow up Do not worry Avoided a fatal thing 'm Lucky my wife and daughter No, come on the narrow house It was a relief Thank you Lisa is not in my mind, Paul It hurts Rabbits killed - What? - He put gas play He had turned the gas on, Paul He was trying to kill me Okay! What do you want me? Call the police? - Is she weird - I do not understand How do you know for sure? I did it, Lisa? Lisa said you do not believe Of course not I do not think Shall we? Not yet She will wake up again? No, I'm serious this time We're back together Do not cry That's right There is no other way You have to return And there's my dad you're supposed to be I can not help more Rest to my sister ... Karen Karen's dead! I'll be right here, right? Gireuteu You did not have Family stuff is Karen, I'm nothing Anyway, thanks for We go back tomorrow No need to thank me 'll See you again? I'll give this? Of course So much happend I wonder if trying to get Who? Karen Karen? Is not a good memory We're not dead? What do you mean? Only 20 km I'm living tteoleojinde - Where are we? - Hold on Paul? Polyigunyo Come on in. The funeral was hiding In family might like it Christine also evident 'll Not want to I used whatever I was like Christine is so that Until consciousness I own personality Was supposed to be: Was I know he wants to be different I could not resist We broke a single soul We, one of them I thought that I'd rather die One day, my hair jalratgo He gave up my soul hurts I want revenge I hold a fork and ran The next day me Licorice water gave I thought you were trying to reconcile Poison the two was Better to put I might not be alive I was lucky people daeyo After that period he went to school dormitory Creed in the Netherlands Christine, that she can not see Hath not stand the fact that 're Left with the cold It's all my fault, okay I wasted away forever Our packing doegetda Let's go home Honey, we all got distracted I'll tell you when you grow up Mother's death Not your fault. Do you know? It's not your fault Come on Got something to show This ... My mom has always going on While living straight I'm four I'll lock the door The thing that makes us see It is coming from the heart You know you're here Get out in my dreams Why did the girl look at the basement Candy took domrukyi Ruined toys Then, I mean It's okay, is not your fault
